*
  —
\
ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA.
VOLUME the FIRST.
•ADi, !o:viATl>ia ' Ai a.tL
Encyclopedia Britannica:
O R, A
DICTIONARY
C> F
ARTS and SCIENCES,
COMPILED UPON A NEW PLAN.
IN WHICH
The different Sciences and Arts are digefted
into diftindt Treatifes or Syftems;
AND
The various Technical Terms, &c. are explained as they
occur in the order of the Alphabet.
ILLUSTRATED WITH ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTY COPPERPLATES.
By a Society of GENTLEMEN in Scotland.
IN THREE VOLUMES.
V O L. I.
LONDON:
Printed forJoHNDoNALDsoN, Corner of Arundel Street in the Strand,
M. DCC.LXXIIL
.
-         i    
PREFACE.
THE method of conveying knowledge by alphabetical arrangement, has of
late years become fo univerfal, that Didlionaries of almoft every branch
of literature have been publifhed, and their number ftill continues to increafe.
The utility of this method is indeed obvious; and experience has given it the
{lamp of approbation.
Among the various publications of this clafs, thofe of the greateft import¬
ance are General Didlionaries of Arts and Sciences: But it is to be regretted,
that thefe, of all other kinds of Dictionaries, have hitherto fallen fhortefl of
their purpofe, and yielded the lead fatisfaCtion. This is not owing, as fome
have imagined, to the nature of the alphabetical plan, as being incompatible
with an objeCl fo complex and extenhve as a digeil of the whole body of Arts
and Sciences; but to an unaccountable inattention to the proper method of
making that digeft, and to the no lefs unaccountable attachment which Com¬
pilers feem to have to the prepofterous method of dealing out the Sciences in frag¬
ments, according to the various technical terms belonging to each: A method re¬
pugnant to the very idea of fcience, which is a connected feries of conclufions dedu¬
ced from felf-evident or previoufly difeovered principles; which principles, with
the relations of the different parts of fcience, cannot be comprehended by the
learner, unlefs. they are laid before him in one uninterrupted chain. Diction¬
aries of Language, of Trade, of Political Geography, Biographical Diction¬
aries, Claffical Dictionaries, and others of the like nature, whofe fubjeCts com-
prife a multitude of particulars unconnected with each other, among which
there is no reafon for precedence in order, better than what each derives from
the letters by which it is expreffed, can fcarce be improperly executed as to the
general arrangement; and therefore, if each article be accurate in itfelf, the
whole will generally give all the fatisfaCtion expeCted from fuch books. But the
fy Hematic nature of the Sciences will not admit of their being difmembered, and
having their parts fubjeCted to fuch fortuitous diftributions: Yet they have fuf-
fered this violence in all the Dictionaries hitherto pubhihed; and hence the diffa-
tisfaCtion and complaints of all thofe who have had occahon to confult them.'
In £ Work of this kind, the Sciences ought to be exhibited entire, or they
are exhibited to little purpofe. The abfurdity and inefficacy of the contrary
method, which has hitherto obtained, will be evident from an example or two.
Suppofe, then, you want to obtain fome knowledge of Agriculture: You
reafonably expeCl to be gratified by confulting one or other of thefe Diction¬
aries ; as in all their Prefaces or Introductions the reader is taught to believe,
that they contain the whole circle of Science and Literature, laid down in the
molt diflinCt, and explained in the molt familiar, manner. Well, how are
you
vi PREFACE.
you to proceed? The fcience is fcattered through the alphabet under a mul¬
titude of words, as Vegetation, Soil, Manure, Tillage, Fallowing, Plough,
Drain, Sowing, Marie, Chalk, Clay, Loam, Sand, Inclofure, Hedge, Ditch,
Wheat, Barley, Harrow, Seed, Root, <&c. <&c. After conlulting a few of
thefe articles, ignorant at the fame time in what order you fhould have taken
them, new references unexpedledly fpring up, and multiply fo thick, that you
fuddenly find yourfelf bewildered as in a labyrinth, without a clue to diredt
your courfe; and if haply you get through alhthe windings, you are ftill as far
from the end of your inquiry as ever. To think of colledting a diflindt or con-
nedted Whole from fuch a farrago, is vain: As well might you hope to acquire
the idea of an edifice, the form of which is entirely demolifhed, from being
fhewn the fcattered ftones which once compofed it.—But is there nothing to
the purpofe under the leading w^ord, Agriculture, itfelf? No. After a de¬
finition of the word, the fignification of which nobody is fuppofed to be igno¬
rant of, you have adefcant upon the ufes of the fcience, which every perfon muft
be fenfible of, and then a few words upon its origin, which fcarce .any body
can be at a lofs to trace, without the help of a Didtionary. But nothing to the
main point; no elements of the fcience, no particulars relating to the pradtice:
But to complete the mortification of the wearied inquirer, he is at laft given to
underhand, that he muft for fatisfadlion have recourfe to fuch and fuch authors
who have written upon the fubjedt; and thefe he muft be at the expence of
purchafing, or find other means than what his Didtionary affords of attaining
the defired information.
Such are the defedts of the old plan with regard to the Sciences: Andfo fond
do the Compilers feem of derangement and demolition wherever it can be effedt-
ed,. that inftead of giving a connected detail even of fuch fubjedts as according
to their own plan naturally admit of being treated fully under one word, they
induftrioufly fplit them into many. For example, you want to know the hifto-
ry of Bees, their ceconomy and various operations. You therefore look out
the word BEE, and are told it is “ An infedt of which there are a great many
“ fpecies, <&c. See Apis.” Upon turning to Api s, “ APIS, in zoology, a genus
“ of four-winged infedts, having their tails furnifhed with a fling, <&c. See Bee,
“ Swarm, Hive, Honey, Wax, i&t.” Well, you turn to the next word re¬
ferred to, “ SWARM of Bees. See Hive.” Upon conful ting HIVE, you are told
it is “A convenient receptacle for bees. See Bee.” Then mention is made of
two or three forts of them, of which no other account is given, but thatfome are
made with willow, others with flraw; fome of wood, others of glafs; and that
their ufual form is conical. And fo, with much the fame fatisfadlion, you are
carried through Hiving, Honey, Honey-comb, Wax, &c.; and after being referred
back from the lafl article to Honey-comb, Honey, Hive, Bee, Apis, you perhaps
throw down the book in the heat of difappointment.—It is difficult to affign a rea-
fon for this condudt. Perhaps this way of fplitting one article into feveral, and
faying
PREFACE. vii
faying fomething upon each, may be intended to give the book an appearance
of greater copioufnefs: But the difcerning reader will fee through the device,
and condemn a Work that would fubjedlhim to the labour of confulting twen¬
ty words in place of one, and where difappointmeht would moft frequently be
the refult of his labour.
Here the Editors think it neceffary to declare, That while their fubje<5t leads
them to the confideration of the defers of the common plan of Dictionaries of
Arts and Sciences in general, they are very far from meaning to point their re-
fledtions againft any of thefe works in particular. Neither do they pretend to
controvert the real utility of fuch performances, when accurately executed. On
the contrary, notwithftanding the reigning defe6t above animadverted on,
their ufes muft be acknowledged to be neither few nor unimportant. Befides
teaching the language, and explaining the terms, of Science, they exhibit a
multitude of ufeful and interefting Articles, which are not properly comprehen-
fible under any fyftem, or are of fiich a nature as not to fuffer prejudice by
being detached. But ftill thefe ufes are infinitely inferior to what ought to be
made the chief objedl of fuch an undertaking, namely, not merely to explain
the Language or the Terms of Science, &c. but to communicate in a connetfl-
ed and intelligible manner the Sciences themfelves. The Editors, therefore,
while they do not mean to detract: from the utility of thefe performances, Can¬
not help taking notice of defeats which prevent that utility from having a wider
range.
With a view to remedy thefe defeats, and render a diftindd knowledge of
the Sciences attainable, the following Work has been planned. Being the firfl
attempt of the kind, extenfive in its nature, and difficult in the execution, it is
offered to the Public with the utmoft diffidence, and under a full fenle of its
requiring their utmoff candour and indulgence.
In compofing it, the defeats of the old plan have not been fupplied at the ex¬
pence of any of its advantages. The plan here adopted is twofold: Syjlemati-
cal, and Detached. To have made it a work confifting entirely of fyItems, would,
in order to avoid one extreme, have been running into another: And though,
by conftituting a Body of Arts and Sciences, it would have been in itfelf a work
of more value and importance, it would perhaps have been lefs generally ac¬
ceptable, than a fimple Dictionary; as the ftudious and the laborious reader
belongs to a clafs far left numerous than that of the fuperficial and the indo¬
lent. It is to readers of the former caff that the old plan is obnoxious, as being
too flimfy and unfatisfying. Readers of the latter fort, again, would natural¬
ly objeCt to the fyftematic plan, and be apt to exclaim, “We do not want to
“ doze over treatifes, or to rake through fyftems; we want an explanation of
“ words or terms which we can readily turn to for occafional confultation.” A
work of tiffs nature, therefore, in order to be of general utility, ought to be
upon
vin P R E F A C E.
upon a plan calculated to fatisfy every reader, whether he may want the ready
explanation of a particular Term, &c. or the entire, view of a whole Science:
And fuch is the fcheme of the prefent undertaking.
1. In the fyjlematic part,—Agriculture, Algebra, Anatomy, Archite<5hire,
Arithmetic, Aftronomyj Botany, Book-keeping; Chemiftry, Commerce, Co¬
nic Sedlions; Dialling; Electricity; Farriery, Fluxions, Fortification; Gar¬
dening, Geography, Geometry, Grammar, Gunnery; Horfemanlhip, Hy-
droflatics; Law, Logic; Mechanics, Medicine, Metaphyfics, Midwifery,
Moral Philofophy, Mufic; Natural Hiftory, Navigation; Optics; PerfpeCtive,
Pneumatics ; Religion or Theology; Short-handWriting, Surgery; Trigono¬
metry; with all the other and leffer Arts and Sciences; are compofed in the
form of diftindt Treatifes or Syftems, and illuftrated with a great number of
elegant Copperplates. In thefe, the reader has the different fubjeCts difcuffed in
a complete and methodical manner, without being diftraCted with references:
And inftead of being amufed with a lift of books to be confulted, he is here pre-
fented with the very books themfelves,—either at large, when a compendium
would be infufficient,—or abridged, when (as is frequently the cafe) to abridge
is to improve. It is, however, to be obferved, that there are feveral Sciences,
of which there are no good treatifes to be had, or which have not been treated
in' all their parts by any author. In thefe inftances, the Treatifes prefented are
either original; or partly original, partly compiled; or compiled from various
authors, who have each written upon particular parts, but not upon the whole
in the form of a fyftem.
2. In the detached part,—the fubjeCls of Natural Hiftory, as Quadrupeds,
Birds, Fifties, Amphibious Animals, InfeCls, and Plants, are all reduced to their
feveral claffes, orders, genera, and fpecies, according to the fyftem of the cele¬
brated Linnaeus; and an account given of their nature, food, inftindls, man¬
ner of living, and other curious and entertaining parts of their hiftory.—Such
articles as could not with propriety be comprehended under any particular
fyftem, of which there is a very large number, many of them original, are fully
treated under their proper names.
It is a difagreeable office for writers to enlarge on the nature of their own
performances. Facfts, however, may be told, without any offence to modefty.
Whoever perufes this Work, will find, that befides a vaft number of curious
and inftrudlive articles, it contains the fubftance of as many valuable books of
fcience as would make no inconfiderable library; fuch a library, indeed, as
could not be purchaled for twenty times the price of the Work itfelf. In every
bqok there are excrefcences; in preparing the Syftems which appear in this
Publication, the Compilers lopt off thefe excrefcences, retrenched fuper-
fluities, and in fliort rejecfted every thing that was not ftricftly connected with
the fubjedt. By thefe means they have been enabled (they flatter themfelves)
to comprife a great deal of fubftantial knowledge in a ftiort compafs, and at the
fame time to preferve the fpirit and manner of the different authors.
Encyclopaedia
Or, A NEW an
D I C T I
o
ARTS and S
A B
A A, the name of feveral rivers in different parts
of the world, viz. i. of one in Solagne, in
France; 2. of one in French Flanders; 3. of
three in Switzerland; 4. of five in the Low
Countries; 5. of five in Weftphalia; 6. of
one in Livonia.
AABAM, a term, among alchemifts, for lead.
AACH, the name of a town and river in Swabia. It is
alfo a name fometimes given to Aix-la-chapelle.
AADE, the name of two rivers, one in the country of
the Grifons in Switzerland, and the other in Dutch
Brabant.
AAHUS, a fmall town and diftrift in Weftphalia.
AAM, a Dutch meafure for liquids, containing about
63 lb. avoirdupoife.
AAMA, a province in Barbary, very little known.
AAR, the name of two rivers, one inWeftphalia, and one
in Switzerland, It is likewife the name of a fmall
ifland im the Baltic fea.
AARSEO, a town in Africa, fituated near the mouth of
the river Mina.
AATTER, or At ter, a province of Arabia Felix, fi¬
tuated on the Red-fea.—N. B. All other places which
begin with a double A, but more generally with a
Angle one, will be in'ferted according to the laft ortho¬
graphy.
AB, the eleventh month of the civil year of the Hebrews.
It correlponds to part of our June and July, and con-
fifts of 30 days. On the firft of this month the Jews
commemorate the death of Aaron by a faft : they fall:
alfo on the ninth, becaufe pn that day both the temple
of Solomon and that erected, after the captivity were
burnt. The fame day is alfo remarkable for the publi¬
cation of Adrian’s edidt, prohibiting the Jews to look
back, even when at a diftance, upon Jerufalem, or to
Vot.I. No. i.
Britannica;
d COMPLETE
O N A R Y
F
C I E N C E S.
ABA
•lament its defolation. The lamp of the fandtuary, in
the time of Ahaz, was extinguilhed on the night of the
18th, for which reafon the Jews faft that day. See
Astronomy, Of the divifion of time.
AB, in the Syriac kalendar, is the name of the laft fum-
mer-month.
ABACATUAIA, in ichthyology, a barbarous name of
the zeus vomer, a filh belonging to the thoracic order
of Linnaeus. See Zeus.
ABACAY, a barbarous name of a fpecies of the pfittacus*
or parrot. See Psittacus.
ABACH, a tov/n in Bavaria, fituated on the Danube,
a little above Ratilbon.
ABACISCUS. See Abacus.
ABACO, a term, among ancient writers, for arithmetic.'
ABACOA, the name of one of the Bahama ifiands.
See Bahama.
ABACOT, the name of an ancient cap of ftate worn by
the kings of England, the upper part whereof was in
the form of a double cfown.
ABACTORES, or Abactors, a term for fuch as
carry off or drive away a whole herd of cattle by Health.
ABACTUS, an obfolete term, among phyficians, for a
mifcarriage procured by art.
ABACUS, a table ftrewed over with duft or fand, upon
v/hich the ancient mathematicians drew their figures.
It alfo fignified a cupboard, or buffet.
ABACUS, in architedture, fignifies the fuperior part or
member of the capital of a column, and ferves as a
kind of crowning to both. It was originally intended
to reprefent a fquare tile covering a bafket. The form
of the abacus is not the fame in all orders: in the
Tufcan, Doric, and Ionic, it is generally fquare; biit
in the Corinthian and Compofite, its four fides are
arched inwards, and embellilhed in the middle with
\ A fome
ABA (
Tome ornament, as a rofe or other flower. Scammozzi
ufes abacus for a concave moulding on the capital of
the Tufcan pedeftal; and Palladio calls the plinth a-
bove the echinus, or boultin, in the Tufcan and Doric
orders, by the fame name. See plate I. fig. I. and
Architecture.
Abacus is alfo the name of an ancient inllrument for
facilitating operations in arithmetic. It is varioufly
contrived. That chiefly ufed in Europe is made by
drawing any number of parallel lines at the difiance of
two diameters of one of the counters ufed in the cal¬
culation. A counter placed on the loweft line, fignifics i;
on the 2d, 10; on the 3d, 100; on the 4th, 1000, &c.
In the intermediate fpaces, the fame counters are efii-
mated at one half of the value of the line immediately
fuperior, viz. between the ift and 2d, 5 ; between
the 2d and 3d, 50, &c. See plate I. fig. 2. A B,
where the fame number, 1768 for example, is reprefent-
ed under both by different difpofitions of the counters.
Abacus harmonious, among muficians, the arrangement
of the keys of a mufical infirument.
Abacus logijiicus, aright-angled triangle, whofe fides
forming, the right angle contain the numbers from 1 to
60, and its area the fa^ta, of every two of the numbers
perpendicularly oppofite. This is alfo called a canon
. of fe'xagefimals.
Abacus Pythagoricus, the multiplication-table, or any
table of numbers that facilitates operations in arith¬
metic,
ABADAN, a town of Perfia, fituated near the mouth of
the Tygris.
ABADDON,. from abaci, to deflroy;, a name given by
St John, in the Revelations, to the king of the loculls.
ABADIR, a title which the Carthaginians gave to gods
of the firft order. In the Roman mythology, it is the
name of a flone which Saturn fwallowed, believing it
to be his new-born fon Jupiter: hence it became the
objeft Of religious worfhip.
ABiERE, a town in the defarts of Arabia.
ABAFT, a-fea-term, fignifying toovards the Jlern : for
mfiance, abaft the mizzen-mafl, implies, that the ob-
jedt is between the mizzen-mafl and the ftern.
,ABAI, in botany, a fynonime of the calycanthus prascox,
a genus of plants belonging to the icofandria polygynia
clafs of Linnaeuss See Caevcanthus.
ABAISSE. See Abased.
ABALIENATION. See Alienation.
ABANBO, a river of Ethiopia which falls into the Nile.
ABANCAI, or Abancays, a town and river of Peru,
in the diflridt of Lima.
ABANO, a fmall town in Italy, fubjedt to Venice,, and
fituated five miles fouth-wefl of Padua.
ABAPTISTON, or Anabaptiston, an obfolete term
for the chirurgical infirument called a trepan. See
Surgery, and Trepan.
ABARCA, a fhoe made of raw hides, formerly worn
by the peafants in Spain.
ABAR1ICULATION, in anatomy, a fpecies of arti¬
culation which is now termed diarthrofis. See Ana¬
tomy, Part I. and Diart hrofis.
ABAS, a weight ufed in Perfia for weighing pearls. It is
i-8th lefs than the European carat.
) ABB
ABASCIA, the country of the Alcas. SccAlcas.
ABAISED, Abaiffe, in heraldry, an epithet applied to
the wings of eagles, Sec. when the tip looks downwards
to the point of the fhield, or when the wings are fhut j
the natural way of bearing them being extended.
ABASING, in the fea-language, figmiies the fame as
ftriking.
ABASSI, or Abassis, a filver coin current in Perfia,
equivalent in value to a French livfe, or tenpence half¬
penny Sterling. It took its name from Schaw Abas 11.
king of Peffia, under Whom it was flruck.
ABATAMENTUM, iri law, is an entry to lands by in-
terpofition, i. e. when a perfon dies feized, and another
who has no right enters before the heir.
ABATE, from abatre, to deflroy; a term ufed by the
writers of the common law, both in an adlive and neu¬
tral fenfe ; as, to abate a caflle, is to deflroy or beat it
down; to abate a writ, is, by Lome exception to ren¬
der it null and void.
Abate, in the manage, implies the performance of any
downward motion properly. Hence a horfe is faid to
abate, or take down his curvets, when he puts both
his hind-legs to the ground at once, and obferves the
fame exadtnefs in all the times,
ABATEMENT, in heraldry, implies fomething added
to a coat of arms in order to leflen its dignity, and point
out fome imperfedlion or fiain in the charadler of the
wearer.
Abatement, in law. See Abate. ~
Abatement, in commerce, fignifies an allowance or
difeount in the price of certain commodities, in confi-
deration of prompt payment, a diminution in the flipu-
lated quantity or quality of goods, or fome fuch cir-
cumflance.
Abatement, in the cufloms, an allowance made upon
the duty of goods, when the quantum damaged is deter¬
mined by the judgment of two merchants upon oath,
and afeertained by a certificate from the furveyor and
land-waiter.
ABATIS, an ancient term for an officer of the flables.
ABATOR, in law, a term applied to a perfon who enters
to a houfe or lands, void by the death of the laft pof-
feflbr, before the true heir.
ABAVO, in botany, a fynonime of the adanfonia, a
fhrub belonging to the monadelphia polyandria of Lin¬
naeus. See Adansonia.
ABAYANCE. See Abeyance.
ABB, a term, among clothiers, applied to the yarn of a
weaver’s warp. They alfo fay Abb-wool in the fame
fenfe.
ABBA, in the Syriac and Chaldee languages, literally
fignifies a father; and figuratively, a fuperior, reputed
as a father in refpeft of age, dignity, or affeftion. It is
alfo a Jewiffi title of honour given to fome of the clafs
called Tanaites.
ABBAT. See Abbot.
ABBATIS. See Abatis.
ABBEFORD, a fea-port town in Norway, in 58. 44.
N. lat.
ABBESS, the fuperior of an abbey or convent of nuns,
over whom fire has the fame authority as the abbots over
the monks. Their fex indeed hinders them from per¬
forming
ABB (
forming the fpiritual fun&ions; but in the 12th century
there were abeffes in Spain who gave benedktions, and
cdnfefl'ed people of both fexes. ■'
ABBEVILLE, a large city of Piccardy in France, ly¬
ing 90 miles north of Paris, in 50. 7. N. lat. and
2. 6. E. long.
ABBEY, a religious houfe, governed by an abbot, v/here
perfons retire from the world, to .fpend their time in
folitude and devotion. By the invention of mafies
for the living and the dead, difpenfations, jubilees,
indulgences, See. the abbeys procured fuch large pri¬
vileges, exemptions, and donations, that, when thefe
houfes were totally abolifhed in -England by Henry
VIII. to the number of 190, an yearly revenue of
- L. 2,853,000 reverted to the crown.
ABBEY-BOYLE, a town in the county of Rofcom-,
mon in Ireland..
ABBOT, the fuperior of an abbey or convent of monks.
In the firlt age’s of ChrifHanity, the abbbts were plain
difinterefted men, and lived contented with the go¬
vernment of their monafteries, which were generally
erefted in the moft folitary parts: but being called
from their deferts to oppofe the herefies in the chu'fch,
they foon began to entertain fentiments of ambition,
and endeavoured to (hake off their dependency on the
bifhdps. Hence ardfethe dillimSions of mitred abbots*
crojiered abbots , oecumenical abbots, cardinal abbots, See.
The principal diftinflion which fubfifts at prefent among
abbots, is that of regular and commendatory; the former
of which take the vow, and wear the habit of the or¬
der ; the latter are feculars, though they are obliged
to take orders at the proper age. . Before the Refor-
• mation in England, there were abbots eleftive and re-
prefentative ; fome mitred, gnd others not. The mi¬
tred abbots were inverted with epifcopal authority
within their own limits, independent of the bifhop;
but the others were fubjedt to the diocefan in all Ipi-
ritual government. The mitred abbots were Lords of
parliament, of which number Sir Edward Coke rec¬
kons 27, who fat in parliament, befides two Lords
Priors.
ABBREVIATE ef adjudications, in Scots law, anab-
ftrad or abridgment of a decreet of adjudication, which
is recorded in a regifter kept for that purpofe. See
Scots Law, title, Adjudications.
ABBREVIATION, or Abbreviature, implies the
fubftitution of a fyllable, letter, or charadler, for a
whole word.
ABBREVIATOR, a perfon who abridges any large
book into a narrower compafs.
ABBREVIATORS, a college of 72 perfons in the chan¬
cery of Rome, who draw up the pope’s brieves, and
reduce petitions into proper form.
ABBREVOIR, a term in mafonry, expreffive of cer¬
tain indentures made in the joints or beds of ftones,
which being filled with the cement or mortar, bind
them firmer together.
ABBROCHMENT. See Abrochment.
ABBUTTALS, fignify the buttings or boundings of
land towards any point. Limits were anciently diftin-
guifhed by artificial hillocks, which were called loten-
\ ) A B E
tines, and hence butting. In a defeription of the file
of land, the fides on the breadth are more properly
adjacentes, and thofe terminating the length aie abbu-
tantes; which, in old furveys, were fometimes ex-
preffed by capitare, to head; whence abbuttals are
nom head lands.
ABCASSES, a people or country in Afia, fituate be¬
tween Circaflia, the Black-fea, and Mingrelia.
ABCDARlX, in botany, a fynonime of the verbefina
acmella. See Verbesika.
ABCDARY, orABCDARiAN, an epithet applied to com-
pofitions, whofe parts are difpoled in an alphabetical
order.
ABDALS, or fervants of God, in the Eaftern coun¬
tries ; furious enthufiafts, who frequently run about
the rtreets, deftroying all who differ from them in re-
ligious opinions.
ABDELAVL in botany, a name ufed by Arabian wri¬
ters for a fpecies of cucumis. See Cucumis.
ABDEST, a term ufed for the legal purifications by
water, pra&ifed among the Mahometans and Ferfians
before they begin their religious ceremonies. ,
ABDICARIAN proposition, in logic, the fame with a
negative one. See Logic, and. Proportion.
ABDICATION, the aflion of renouncing or giving up-
an office.
ABDOMEN, in anatomy, is that part of the trunk of
the body which lies between the thorax and the bot¬
tom of the pelvis. See Anatomy, part VI.
ABDUCTION, a form of reafoning among logicians,,
which confifts in drawing conclufions from certain and
undeniable propofitions. See Logic.
Abduction, in furgery, a fpecies of frafhire wherein
the broken parts of the bone recede from each other.
See Surgery, Of frattures-..
ABDUCTOR, in anatomy, the name of feveral mufcles
which ferve to open or draw back the parts to which
they are fixed. See Anatomy; Part VI.
ABEL-TREE, or Abeue-Yree, an obfolete name for
a fpecies of the poplar. See Populus.
ABELIANS, Abeloites, .or Abelonians, a:fe<ft of
heretics that fprung up near Hippo.,TP. Africa during
the reign of Arcadius. They had‘.^fe dirtinguifhing
and extraordinary tenet,, which was to marry, but ne¬
ver to confummate. ’
ABELMOSCH, or Abelmusch, in botany, the trivial
name of a fpecies of the bibifeus. See'HiBiscus.
ABENSBURG, orABENSPERG, a fmall town in Ba¬
varia, on the river Abence, near the Danube.
ABERBROTHOCK, one of the royal boroughs of
Scotland, fituated in the county of Angus, about 40
miles north of Edinburgh. Its weft long, is 2. 20.
and N. lat. 56. 30. There was formerly one'of the
richeft monafteries in Scotland in this town. It was
founded by King William of Scotland about the year
xi 70, in honour of Thomas Becket Archbifhop of
Canterbury, with whom he is faid to have been in¬
timately acquainted. This moraftery received confi-
derable donations from Gilchrift Earl of Angus, and
Gilbred his fon. It was poflefled by the monks of St
Bennet. The inhabitants of Aberbrothcck, for the
lake
ABE ( 4 ) A B I
fake of their monaftery, were made, deni fens of all
England (London excepted) by King John.
ABERDEEN* the name of two cities in Scotland, call¬
ed the Old and Ne^w Towns, fituated on the German
Ocean, in i. 45. W, Ion. and 57. xi. N. lat.
The old town lies about a mile to the north of the
, new, at the mouth of the river Don, over which is a
fine bridge, of a fingle arch, which reds at both fides
on two rocks. The old town was formerly the feat of
the bifhop, and had a large cathedral church, com¬
monly called St, Mocker's. This cathedral had an¬
ciently two rows of done pillars acrofs the church,
and three turrets ; the deeple, which was the larged of
thefe turrets, reded upon an arch, fupported by four
pillars. In this cathedral there was a fine library;
but about the year 1560 it was almod totally dedroyed.
But the capital building is the King’s-college, on the
fouth fide of the town, which is a large and dately fa¬
bric, The deeple is vaulted with a double crofs arch,
above which is an imperial crown, fupported by eight
done pillars, and clofed with a globe and two gilded
erodes. In the year 1631 this deeple was thrown down
by a dorm, but was foon after rebuilt in a more date¬
ly form. This college was founded by Biflxop El-
phindon in the year 1500; but James IV. claimed the
patronage of it, and it has fince been called the King's
College. This college, and the Marilhall-college in
the new town, form one univerfity, called the Univer-
Jity of King Charles.
The new town is the capital of the (hire of Aberdeen.
For largenefs, trade, and beauty, it greatly exceeds
any town in the North. It dands upon a hill or rifing
ground. The buildings are generally four dories high,
and have, for the mod part, gardens behind them, which
gives it a beautiful appearance. On the high dreet is
a large church, which formerly belonged to the Fran-
eifeans. This church was begun by Bp William El-
phindon, and finifhed by Gavinus Dunbar, Bifhop of
Aberdeen, about the 1500. Bp Dunbar is faid like-
wife to have built the bridge over the Dee, which con-
fids of feven arches. The chief public building in
the new town is the Marifhall-college, founded by
George Keith Earl of Marlhall, in the year 1593 ;
but has fince been greatly augmented with additional
buildings. In both the Marifliall and King’s-college
the languages, mathematics, natural philofophy, divi¬
nity, <bc. are taught by very able profefibrs.
ABERDOUR, a fmall town in Fifeftrire, Scotland, on
the frith of Forth, about ten miles N. W. of Edin¬
burgh.
ABERGAVENY, in Monmouthfiiire, England, a well-
built town, lying 142 miles W. by N. of London, in
51. 50. N. lat. and 30. 5. W. Ion. This town con-
lids of .about 500 houfes, has a weekly market on the
Tuefdays, and another on the Fridays; and three
fairs for horfes, Iheep, and black cattle.
ABERMURDER, an old law-term for murder, proved
in a judicial manner, which could not be atoned for
with money.
ABERRATION, in adronomy, a fmall apparent mo¬
tion of the fixed dars, fird difeovered by Dr Bradley
and Mr Mollineux, and found to be owing to the pro-
greffive motion of light, and the earth’s annual mo¬
tion in its orbit, If a lucid objeft be fixed, and the
. .eye of. the obferver moving along in any other direc¬
tion than that of a dreight line from the eye to the
objeft, it is plain, that the objeft mud have an appa¬
rent motion, greater or lefs, according to the velocity
with which the eye is moved, and the didance of the
objedt from the eye. See Astronomy.
ABERRATION, in optics, a deviation of the rays of
light which prevents their uniting in the fame focal
point, and is occafioned by their being refracted by a
fpherical lens, or refledted by a fpherical fpeculum.
See Optics.
ABERYSWITH, a market-town in Wales, lying 199
miles W. S. W. of London, in 52. 30. N. lat. and
40 13 W. long.
ABESTA, the name of one of the facred books of the
Perfian magi, which they aferibe to their great found¬
er Zoroader The abeda is a commentary on two o-
thers of their religious books called Zend and Pazend\
the three together including the whole fydem of the
Ignicold, or worfhippers of fire.
ABESTON, a blundering way of writing Abedus. See
Abestus.
ABETTOR, a law-term, implying one who encourages
another to the performance of fome criminal adtion,
or who is art and part in the performance itfelf. Trea-
fon is the only crime in which abettors are excluded by
law, every individual concerned being confidered as a
principal. It is the fame with art and part in the
Scots law.
ABEVACUATION, in medicine, a gentle evacuation.
See Evacuation.
ABEX, the name of a large trad! of land, lying along
the wed coad of the Red-fea, fouth of Egypt, fubjedt
to the Ottoman Porte.
ABEYANCE, in law, the expedtancy of an edate.
Thus if lands be leafed to one perfon for life, with
reverfion to another for years, the remainder for years
is an abeyance till the death of the lefiee.
ABHEL, in botany, an obfolete name of the fabina or
favin. See Juniper and Sabina.
ABIB, fignifying an ear of corn, a name given by the
Jews to the fird month of their ecclefiadical year, af¬
terwards called Nifan. It commenced at the vernal
equinox, and, according -to the courfe of the moon, by
which their months were" regulated, anfwered to the
latter part of our March, and beginning of April.
ABIDING hy a writing, in Scots law: When a perfon
founds upon a writing alledged to be falfe, he may be
obliged to declare judicially, whether he will dand or
abide by it as a true deed. As to the confequences
of abiding by, or paflingfrom, a falfe deed, fee Scots
Law, title, Crimes.
ABIES, the fir-tree, in botany, belongs ,to the mon$cia
monadelphia cfafs of Linnaeus. Forks characters, fee
Pinus, of which it is a Ipeeies.
ABIGEAT, an old law-term, denoting the crime of
dealing cattle by droves or herds. This crime, was
more feverely punilhed than furtum, the delinquent
being
3
A B L ( .
being often condemned to the mines, banifhment, and
fometimes capitally.
ABIGEATUS, or Abactus, among phyficians., fig-
niiies a mifcarriage effefted by art.
ABIGIES, a term in the Roman law, applied to one
who had been guilty of the crime Ab i g e a t ; which fee.
ABILITY., a term in law, denoting a power of doing cer¬
tain adlions in the acquihtion or transferring of property.
ABINGDON, a town of Berk/hire, England, feated
on the Thames-, about 55 miles W. of London, and
gives title of Earl to the noble family of Bertie.
AB-INTESTATE, in the civil law, is applied to a
perfon who inherits the right of one who died inte-
llate, or without making a will. See Intestate.
ABISHERING, a term found in old law books, deno¬
ting a liberty or freedom from all amerciaments, and
a right to exa£t forfeitures of others.
ABIT, or Aboit, obfolete terms for cerufe or white
lead. See Ceruse and Chemistry.
ABJURATION, in our ancient cuftoms, implied an
oath, taken by a perfon guilty of felony, and who had
fled to a place of fandtuary, whereby he folemnly en¬
gaged to leave the kingdom for ever.
Abjuration, is now ufed to fignify the renouncing,
difclaiming, and denying, upon oath, the Pretender to
have any kind of right to the crown of thefe kingdoms.
Abjuration of herefy, the folemn recantation of any
dodtrine as falfe and wicked.
ABLAC, a fmall river in Swabia, which falls into the
Danube not far-from Furftenburg.
ABLACTATION, the weaning a child from the bread.
See Weaning.
Ablactation, in gardening, fignifies grafting by ap¬
proach. See Grafting and Gardening.
ABLACQUEATION, an old term in gardening, fig¬
nifies the operations of removing the earth and baring
the roots of trees in winter, to expofe them more freely
to the air, rain, fnows, <hc.
ABLATIVE, is the 6th cafe in Latin grammar, and
peculiar to that language. It is oppofed to the dative,
which express the adtion of giving, and the ablative
that of taking am ay.
ABLAY, or Ablai, a country of Great Tartary, whofe
inhabitants, called Bochars, are vaffals of the Ruf¬
fians. It lies to the eaft of the Irtis, and extends joo
leagues along the fouthern frontiers .of Siberia.
ABLECTI, in Roman antiquity, afeledt body of foldiers
chofen from among thofe called Extraordinarii,
which fee.
ABLEGM1NA, among the ancient Romans, fignified
thofe parts in the intrails of vidtims which were fprink-
led with flour, and burnt upon the altar, in facrificing
to the gods.
ABLET, or Ablen, an obfolete name of the fiih cal¬
led Cj/irwK/ See Cyprinus.
ABLUENTS, in medicine, are the fame with diluters,
ABLUTION, a ceremony ufed by the ancient Romans
before they began the facrifice, which confided in walk¬
ing the body. They very probably learned this cere¬
mony from the Jews, as have alfo the Mahometans,
who dill pradlife it .with the utmod dridtnefs.
Vox.. I. No. 1.
) A B II
Ablution, among chemids, the fweetening any matter
impregnated with falts, by repeatedly walking it with
pure water. See Chemistry.
Ablution, with phyficians, is either the walking of a-
ny external part by bathing, or of the domach and in-.
tedines by diluting liquors.
ABO, a city of Sweden, capital of Finland, feated at
the mouth of the river Aurojoks on the gulph of Both-.
nia, 24. o. N. E. of Stockholm, in lat. 60. 30. N.
and long. 2 r. 30. E.
ABOARD, fignifies any part on the deck orinfide of a
fliip; hence any perfon who goes on the deck, or into
the apartments of a Ihip, is faid to go aboard.
ABOLITION, implies the adt of annulling, dedroying,-
making void, or reducing to nothing. In law, it fig¬
nifies the repealing any law or datute.
ABOLLA, the name of a military garment worn by
the Greeks and Romans.
ABOMASUS, Abomasum, or Abomasius, names of
the fourth domach of ruminating animals. The fird
domach is called venter, the fecond reticulum, the
third omaftu, and the fourth abomajis. The third,
domach, omafis, is endued with the Angular quality
of curdling milk. But the truth is, the domachs of
almod all animals, whether they ruminate or not, will
produce the fame effedt, though not perhaps in an e-
qual degree, as the domachs of calves or lambs.
See Milk, Runnet.
ABOMINATION, a term ufed in fcripture to exprefs
* idols, idolatry, <bc.
ABORIGINES, an epithet applied to the original or
fird inhabitants of any country, but particularly ufed
to fignify the ancient inhabitants of Latium, or coun¬
try now called Campagna di Rotna, when iEneas with
his Trojans came into Italy.
ABORTION, in midwifery, the birth of a foetus before
it has acquired a fufficient degree of perfedtion to en¬
able it to perform refpiration and the other vital func¬
tions. See Midwifery, title. Of abortions.
Abortion, among gardeners, fignifies fuch fruits as,
being produced too eafy, never arrive at maturity. >
ABORTIVE, in a general fenfe, implies any thing
which comes before its proper time, or mifcarries in
the execution.
ABOY, a fmall town in Ireland, in the province of Lein-
der.
ABRA, a filver coin of Poland, in value nearly equiva¬
lent to an Englilh Hulling.
ABRACADABRA, a magical word or fpell, which be¬
ing written as many times as the word contains letters,
and omitting the lad letter of the former every time,
was, in the ages of ignorance and fuperdition, worn
about the neck, as an antidote againd agues and feve-
ral other difeafes
ABRAHAM’! balm, in botany, See Cannabis.
ABRAHAMITES, an order of monks exterminated
for idolatry by Theophilus in the ninth century. AHb
the name of another fed! of heretics who had adopted
the errors of Paulus. See Paulicians.
ABRAMIS, an obfolete name for the filh cyprinus. See
Cyfrinus.
f B Abrasa,
A B R (6
ABRASA, in furgery, ulcers, where the flcin is fo ten¬
der and lax as to render them fubjeft to abrafion.
ABRASION, in medicine, the corroding of any part by
acrid humours or medicines.
ABRAUM, an obfolete name of a certain fpecies of clay,
called by fome authors Adamic earth, on account of
its red colour.
ABRASAX, or Abraxas, a myftical term found in
the ancient theology and philofophy of Bafilides’s fol¬
lowers.
ABRAX, an antique ftone with the word abraxas engra¬
ved on it. They are of various fizes, and molt of
them as old as the third century.
ABREAST, a fea-term. In an attack, purfuit, or re¬
treat at fea, the fquadrons or divifions of a fleet are
often obliged to vary their difpofitions, and at the
fame time obferve a proper regularity, by failing in
right or curved lines: when they fail at a proper di-
ftance from each other, and are all equally forward,
they are then faid to have formed the line abreaji.
ABRENUNCIATION. See Renunciation.
ABRIDGEMENT, in literature, a term fignifying the
redu&ion of a book into a fmaller compafs.—The art
of conveying much fentiment in few words, is the
happieft talent an author can be poffefFed of. This
talent is peculiarly neceffary in the prefent Hate of li¬
terature ; for many writers have acquired the dexte¬
rity of Spreading a few tritical thoughts over feve-
xal hundred pages. When an author hits upon a
thought that pleafes him, he is apt to dwell upon it/
to view it in different lights, to force it in improperly,
or upon the llighteft relations. Though this may be
pleafant to the writer, it tires and vexes the reader.
There is another great fource of diffufion in compo-
fidon. It is a capital objeA with an audior, whatever
be the fubjeA, to give vent to all his bell thoughts.
When he finds a proper place for any of them, he is
peculiarly happy. But, rather than facrifice a thought
he is fond of, he forces it in by way of digreffion,
or fuperfluous illuftration. If none of thefe expe¬
dients anfwer his purpofe, he has recourfe to the mar¬
gin, a very convenient apartment for all manner of
pedantry and impertinence. There is not an author,
however correct, but is more or lefs faulty in this
Sefpefl. Ah abridger, however, is not fubjeA to thefe
temptations. The thoughts are not his own; he views
them in a cooler and lefs affeflionate manner; he difco-
vers an impropriety in fome, a vanity in others, and a
want of utility in many. His bufinefs, therefore, is
to retrench fuperfluities, digreflions, quotations, pe¬
dantry, and to lay before the public only what is
really ufeful. This is by no means an eafy employ¬
ment : To abridge fome books, requires talents equal,
if not fuperiour, to thofe of the author. The faffs,
manner, fpirit, and reafoning, mud be preferred; no¬
thing efi’ential, either in argument or iiluflration, ought
to be omitted. The difficulty of the talk is the prin¬
cipal reafon why we have fo few good abridgements :
Wynne’s abridgement of Locke’s Effay on the Hu¬
man Underftanding is, perhaps, the only unexceptioa-
able one in our language.
) A B R
Thefe obfervations relate. folely to fueh abridge¬
ments as are defigned for the public. But,
When a perfon wants to let down the fubflance df
any book, a fhorter and lefs laborious method may be
followed. It would be foreign to our plan to give ex¬
amples of abridgements for the public: But, as it may
be ufeful, efpecially to young people, to know how
to abridge books for their own ufe, after giving a
few direftkms, we (hall exhibit an example or two,
to fhew with what eafe it may be done.
Read the book carefully; endeavour to learn the
principal view of the author; attend to the argu¬
ments employed: When you have done fb, you will
generally find, that what the author ufes as new or
additional arguments, are in reality only collateral-
ones, orextenfions of the principal argument. Take
a piece of paper, or a common-place book, put down
what the author wants to prove, fubjoin die argu¬
ment or arguments, and you have the fubltance of the
book in a few fines. For example,
In the Eflay on Miracles, Mr Hume’s defign is to
prove. That miracles which have not been the imme¬
diate objedts of our fenfes, cannot reafonably be be¬
lieved upon the teftimony of others.
Now, his argument, (for there happens to be but
one), is,
“ That experience, which in fome things is vari-
“ able, in others uniform, is our only guide in rea-
“ foning concerning matters of fadh A variable ex-
“ perience gives rife to probability only; an uniform
44 experience amounts to a proof Our belief of any
44 fadt from the teftimony of eye-witneffes, is deri-
44 ved from no other principle than our experience
44 in the veracity of human teftimony. If the fadt
“ attefted be miraculous, here arifes a conteft of
** two oppofite experiences, or proof againft proof.
44 Now, a miracle is a violation of the laws of na-
44 ture ; and as a firm and unalterable experience has
44 eftabliftied thefe laws, the proof againft a miracle,
44 from the very nature of the fadt, is as complete as
“ any argument from experience can poffibly be ima-
44 gined; and if fo, it is an undeniable confequence,
*4 that it cannot be furmounted by any proof what-
,4 ever derived from human teftimony.”
In Dr Campbell’s Differtation on Miracles, the au¬
thor’s principal aim is to fhew the fallacy of Mr Hume’s
argument; which he has done moft fuccefsfully by ail-
other Angle argument, as follows :
44 The evidence arifing from human teftimony is
44 not folely derived from experience: on the contra-
44 ry, teftimony hath a natural influence on belief an-
“ teccdent to experience. The early and unlimit-
“ ed affent given to teftimony by children gradually
44 contradts as they advance in life: it is, therefore,
“ more confonant to truth, to fay, that our diffidence
** in teftimony is the refult of experience, than that
44 our faith in it has this foundation. Befides, the
44 uniformity of experience, in favour of any fadt, is
44 not a proof againft its being reverfed in a particular
44 inftance. The evidence arifing from the Angle te-
“ ftimeny of a man of known veracity will go far to
“ eftafolilh
A B R (
“ eftabHfh a 1>eiief in its being afluafly reverfed: If
“ his teftimony be confirmed by a few others of the
“ fame character, we cannot witb-hold our affent 'to
“ the truth of it. Now, though the operations bf na-
“ ture are governed by uniform laws, and though we
“ have not the teftimony of our fenfes in favour of a-
“ ny violation of them , ftifl, if, in partictrfar inftan-
“ ces, we have the teftimony of ihoufands of OUr fd-
“ low-creafures, and thofe too men of ftri<ft integri-
“ ty, fwayed by no motives of ambition or intereft,
“ and governed 'by the principles of common fenfe,
“ That they were aiftually eye-Witneffes of thefe vio-
“ lations, the conftitution of our nature obliges us to
“ believe them.”
Thefe two examples contain the fubftance of about
400 pages. — Making private abridgements of this
kindas many advantages; it engages us to read with
accuracy and attention; it fixes the fubjedt in our
minds; and, if we fbould happen to forget, inftead
of reading the books again, by glancing a few lines,
we are not only in poffdfion of the chief arguments,
but recall in a good meafure the author’s method and
manner.
Abridging is peculiarly ufeful in taking the fub¬
ftance of what is delivered by Profeflbrs, <bc. It is
impoflible, even with the affiftahce of fhort-hand, to
take down, verbatim, what is faid by a public fpeak-
er. Befides, although it were pradlicable, fuch a ta¬
lent would be of little ufe. Every public fpeakerhas
circumlocutions, redundancies, lumber, which deferve
rfot to be copied. All that is really ufeful may be
Comprehended in* a fhort compafs. If the plan of the
tfifcourfe, and arguments employed in fupport of the
different branches be taken down, you have the whole.
Thefe yon may afterwards extend in the form of a
difcourfe dreffed in your own language. This would
hot only be a more rational employment, but would
likewife be an excellent method of improving young
men in coftlpofition, an objeft too little attended to in
all our univerfities. Befides, it would be more for the
honour of profeffors ; as it would prevent at kaft fiich
tmmenfe loads bf disjointed and unintelligible rubbifh
from being handed about by the name of fuch a man’s
kftures.
Abridgement, inlaw, fignifies the making a declara¬
tion or plaint fhorter by leaving out fomething.
Abridgement, in arithmetic. See Arithmetic, Of
vulgar frail ions
Abridgement, in algebra. See Algebra, Of equa¬
tions.
ABROBANIA, a town and diftri<ft in Tranfylvania.
ABROGHMENT, an old law term which fignifies fore-
ftalling. See Forestalling.
ABROGATION, fignifies annulling, making Void, or
■repealing a law.
ABROLKOS, the name of certain Ihelves, or banks of
fandj about 20 leagues from the coaft of Brazil
ABRON, a river bf France which falls into the Loire
not far from Nevers
ABRONO. See Abrugi.
ABROTANQIDE3, the name of a fpecies of coral call-
7 ) A B S
ed par us. It is alfo a fynonime of the artemifia. See
Artemisia.
ABROTANOIDES, a wine mentioned by Diofcbrides,
impregnated with futhemwood.
ABROTANUM, in botany, a fynonime of feveral plants.
See Artemisia, Filago, Santolina.
ABRUPTION, in furgery. Sbe Abduction.
ABRUS, in botany, the trivial name of the glycine. See
Glycine.
ABRUZZO, in geography, the name of two provinces
belonging to the K. of Naples, bn the gulph of Ve¬
nice, diftinguifhed by Nearer and Farther Abruzzo,
from their pofition with refpedt to Naples.
ABSGEDENTlA, in furgery, a term applied to decay¬
ed parts of the body, which, in a morbid ftate, are
feparated from the found, or lofe that union which
was preferred in a-natural ftate.
ABSCESS, in medicine and forgery, an iinpofthume, or
any tumor'or cavity containing purulent matter. See ‘
Sorcery, title. Of tumours or abfcejfes.
ABSCHARON, a town in Afia, fituated on the weftefn'
ihore of the Cafpian fea.
ABSCISSE, in mathematics. See Conic Sections.
ABSCISSION, a figure in rhetoric, whereby the fpeak-
er flops ftiort in the middle of his difcourfe, leaving
the audience to make the inference.
Abscission, in furgery, the fame with amputation.
ABSCONSA, a dark lanthorn ufed by the monks at
the ceremony of burying their dead.
ABSENCE, in Scots law: When a perfon cited before
a Court does not appear, and judgment is pronounced,
that judgment is faid to be in abfence. No perfbu
can be tried criminally in aMence. See Law, title.
Sentences and their execution.
ABSINTHIATED medicines, fuch as aie impregnated
with abfinthium or wormwood.
ABSINTHIUM, in botany, the trivial name of the
common wormwood or artemifia. It is alfo a fyno¬
nime of the tanacetum incanum, the fe'necio incanurii,
the anthemis montana, the achillflea egyptiaca, and of
the parthenium hyfterophorus. See Artemisia, <bc.
ABSIS, in aftronomy, the fame with Apsis, which fee.
ABSOLUTE, in a general fenfe, denotes a thing’s be¬
ing independent or, or uncorihefted with, any other ;
it is alfo ufed to exprefs freedom from all limitatioh.
Absolute government, is that wherein the prince, un¬
limited by the laws, is left folely to his own will. See
Government.
Absolute gravity, in phyfics, is the whole force by which
a body is urged downwards. See Mechanics.
Absolute, in metaphyfics, denotes a being that pof-
feffes independent exiftence.
ABSOLUTION, in general, is the pardoning or forgi¬
ving a guilty perfon.
AlssbLUTioN, in civil law, is a fentehce whereby the
party accufed is declared innocent of the crime laid
to his charge.
Absoluti on, in the canon law, is A juridical a& where¬
by the ecclefiaftical dfficers remit or. forgive the peni¬
tent offender, or declare him reftcred to the privileges
of innocence in confideratibn of his repentance.
ABSORBENT
A B S (8
ABSOPvBENT medicines, teftaceous powders, as chalk,
crabs-eyes, <bc. which are taken inwardly for drying
up or abforbing any acrid or redundant humours in
tire fiomach or inteftines. They are likewife applied
outwardly to ulcers or fores with the fame intention.
Absorbent vcjjils, in anatomy, a name given promif-
cuoufly to the la&eal veffels, lymphatics, and inhalent
arteries. See Anatomy.
Absorbent veffels, is alfo a riame ufed for the fmall
fibrous roots of plantsf
ABSORPTION, in the animal ceconomy, is the a£t
whereby the abforbent veflels imbibe the juices, &c.
ABSTEMIOUS, an epithet applied to perfons very tem¬
perate in eating and drinking. It is likewife applied
to thofe who could not partake of the eucharift on ac¬
count of their averfion to wine.
ABSTENTUS, in law, an heir who is with-held by his
tutor from entering upon his inheritance.
ABSTERGENT medicines, thofe employed for refol-
ving obdrudlions, concretions, <bc. fuch as foap, <bc.
ABSTINENCE, the refraining from fomething we have
a propenlity to. It commonly imports a fpare diet.
ABSTINENTS, in church hiftory, a fort of people in
the ancient church who carried their abftinence and
mortification very far. They have been claffed with
heretics, though we have no certain account of their
particular opinions.
ABSTRACT idea, in metaphyfics, is a partial idea of
a complex objeft, limited to one or more of the com¬
ponent parts or properties, laying afxde or abftradting
from the reft. Thus, in viewing an objeft with the eye,
or recollefting it in the mind, we can eafily abftraft
from fome of its parts or properties, and attach our-
felves to others: we can attend to the rednefs of a
cherry, without regard to its figure, tafte, or conlift-
ence. See Abstraction, Metaphysics.
Abstract terms, words that are ufed to exprefs ab¬
ftraft ideas. Thus beauty, uglinefs, whitenefs, round-
nefs, life, death, are abftraft terms
Abstract mathematics, fometimes denominated pure
mathematics, treat of magnitude or quantity abfolute-
ly and generally confidered, without regard to any par¬
ticular fpecies of magnitude.
Abstract numbers, fuch as have no particular applica¬
tion.
Abstract, is alfo a term in literature to fignify a con-
cife, yet general view or analyfis of fome larger work.
It differs from an abridgment, in being fhorter and more
fuperficial; and from an extraft, as this laft is a copy
of fome part or paffage of it.
ABSTRACTION, the operation of the mind when oc¬
cupied by abftraft ideas A large oak fixes our atten¬
tion, and abftrafts us from the ftirubs that furround it.
In the fame manner, a beautiful woman in a crowd,
abftrafts our thoughts, and engroffes our attention fole-
Iy to herfelf. Thefe are examples of real abftraftion : •
when thefe, or any others of afimilar kind, are recalled
to the mind, after the objefts themfelves are removed
from our fight, they form, what is called ahjirad ideas,
or the mind is faid to be employed in abftraft ideas.
But the power of abftraftion is not confined to ob-
3
) A B Y
jefts'that are feparable in reality as Well as mental¬
ly : the fize, the figure, the colour jof a tree are infe-
parably connefted, and cannot exift independent of
each other; and yet we can mentally, confine our ob-
fervations to any one of thefe properties, neglefting or
abftrafting from the reft.
Abstraction, in chemiftry, the evaporating or drawing
off the menftruum from any fubjeft,
ABSTRACTITIOUS.anobfolete term, among chemifts,
for a vegetable fpirit obtained without fermentation.
ABSTRUSE, a term applied to any thing that is hard
to be underftpod, whether the obfcurity arifes from
the difficulty of the fubjeft, or the confufed manner
of the writer.
ABSURD, an epithet for any thing that contradifts an
apparent truth.
ABSURDITY, the name of an abfurd aftion or fenti-
ment.
ABSUS, in botany, the trivial name of a fpecies of the
caffia.
ABSYNTHIUM. See Absinthium.
ABUAI, one of the Philippine ifles. See Philippine.
ABUCCO, Abocco, or Aboochi, a weight ufed in
the kingdom of Pegu, equal to 12 f tecealis ; two a-
buccos make an agiro; and two agiri make half a biza,
which is equal to 2 tb 5 oz. of the heavy weight of Ve¬
nice.
ABUKESO. SeeAsLANi.
ABUNA, the title of the Archbilhop or Metropolitan
of Abyffinia.
ABUNDANT numbers, fuch whofe aliquot parts ad¬
ded together exceed the number itfelf; as 20, the
aliquot parts of which are, 1,2,4, 5> IO> am* mahe 22.
ABUSAN, an ifland on the coaft of Africa, in 35 35.
N lat. dependent on the province of Caret, in the
kingdom of Fez.
ABUSE, implies the perverting of any thing from its
original intention.
ABUTIGE, a town in Upper Egypt, famous for produ¬
cing the belt opium.
ABUTTALS. See Abbuttals.
ABUTILON, in botany, the trivial name of leveral
fpecies of the fida. See Si da. Abutilon is alfo a
fynonime of the melochia tomentofa, and melochia de-
preffa, two American plants of the monadelphia pen-'
tandria clafs. It it is likewife a fynonime of the la-
vatora, malva, and hibifcus.
ABYSS, in a general fenfe, fignifies any unfathomable
gulph. It is alfo the name of a vaft cavern filled with
water, fuppofed to exift near the centre of the earth.
Abyss, in fcripture, is fometimes ufed for hell.
Abyss, in antiquity, a name given to the temple of
Proferpine,
Abyss, among alchemifts, fignifies the receptacle of the
feminal matter, and fometimes the feminal matter it¬
felf.
ABYSSINIA, a kingdom of Africa, bounded on the
N. by that of Sennar, or Nubia; on the E. part¬
ly by the Red fea, and partly by Dancala; oh the
W. by Gorham and Gingiro; and on . the S. by A-
laba and Ommo-Zaidi. It was formerly of greater
extent
A C A (9
extent than it is at prefent, becaufe feveral provinces
have revolted, and the Turks have made encroach¬
ments to the eaft. The land is fertile in many places,
and the air is very hot, except in the rainy feafon,
and then it is very temperate For four months in the
year, greater rains fall there than perhaps in any other
part of the world, which occafion the /welling of the
river Nile, that has its fource in this country. It con¬
tains mines of all forts of metal, except tin ; but the
inhabitants make no great advantage thereof. The
fields are watered by feveral ftreaois, except in the
mountainous parts. The emperor, or king, is called
Negus ; and he has been commonly taken for Prefter
John. His authority is abfolute, and he often dwells
with his whole court in tents. However, Abyflinia is
not without cities, as feme pretend; for Gondar is a
large place, where the king commonly refides when
he is not in the field. The inhabitants are black, or
very near it; but they are not fo ugly as the negroes.
They make profeffion of the Chriftian religion, but it
has a mixture of Judaifm. The habit of perfons of
quality is a filken vert, with a fort of fcarf; but the
common people wear nothing but a pair of drawers.
ABYSSINIAN church, that eftabliihed in the empire of
Abyflinia. It is a branch of the Copts or Jacobites,
a fedt of heretics, who admit but one nature in Jefus
Chrift.
ACACALOTL, the Brafilian name of a fpecies of the
Corvus. SeeCoavus.
ACACIA, in botany, a fynonime of the poinciana,
genifta, mitnofa, rohinia, guaicum, ijc. See thefe
articles.
Acacia, in the materia medica, the infpiflitated juice
of the unripe fruit of the acacia. This juice is
brought from Egypt in roundifh pieces, wrapt up in
thin bladders, and is ufed as a mild aftringent.
Ackcia germanica. See Pruna.
Acacia, among antiquaries, fomething refembling a
roll or bag, feen on medals, as in the hands of feveral
confuls and emperors. Some take it to reprefent a
handkerchief rolled up, wherewith they made fignals
at the games ; others a roll of petitions or memorials;
and fome a purple bag full of earth, to remind them of
their mortality.
ACACIANS, in ecclefiaftical hiftory, the name of fe¬
veral fedts of heretics; fome of whom maintained,
that the Son was only a fimilar, not the fame, fub-
ftance with the Father; and others, that he was not
only a diftindt, but a diflimilar fubflance. Two of thefe
fedts had their denomination from Acacius bifliop of
Caefarea, who lived in the fourth century, and changed
his opinions, fo as, at different tiroes, to be head of
both. Another was named from Acacius patriarch of
Conftantinople, who lived in the clofe of the fifth cen¬
tury.
ACxADEMIC, Academiciah, or Academist, a
member of an academy. See Academy in the mo¬
dern fenfe.
ACADEMICS, or Academists, a denomination gi¬
ven to the cultivators of a fpecies of philofophy origi¬
nally derived from Socrates, andafterwards illulhated
Yol. I. No 1. 3
} A C A
and inforced by Plato, who taught in a grove near A*
thens, confecrated to the memory of Academes an A-
thenian hero; from which circuniftance this philofophy
received the name of academical. Before the days of
Plato, philofophy had, in a great meafure, fallen into
contempt. The contradidtory fyflems and hypothefes
that had fuccefiively been urged upon the world, were
become fo numerous, that, from a view of this incon-
ftancy and uncertainty of human opinions, many were
led to conclude, that truth lay beyond the reach of our
comprehenfion. Abfolute and univerfal fcepticifm was
the natural conlequence of this conclufion. In order
to remedy this abufe of philofophy and of the human
faculties, Plato laid hold of the principles of the aca¬
demical philofophy, and, in his Phaedo, reafons in the
following manner: “ If we are unable to difeover
“ truth, (fays he), it muft be owing to two circum-
“ ftances; either there is no truth in the nature of
“ things, or the mind, from a defedt in its powers,
“ is not able to apprehend it. Upon the latter fuppo-
" fition, all the uncertainty and fludhration in the opi-
“ nions and judgments of mankind admit of an eafy
“ folution: Let us therefore be modeft, and aferibe
“ our errors to the real weaknefs of our own minds,
“ and not to the nature of things themfelves. Truth
“ is often difficult of accefs : in order to come at it,
“ we mult proceed with caution and diffidence, care-
“ fully examining every flep ; and after all our labour,
“ we will frequently find our greateft efforts difap-
“ pointed, and be obliged to confefs our ignorance
“ and weakndls.”
Labour and caution in our refoarches, in oppofition to
ralh and baity decifions, were the diftinguifliing charac-
teriftics of the difciples of the ancient academy. A
philofopher poffefled of thefe principles, will be flow
in his progrefs, but will feldom fall into errors, or
have occafion to alter his opinion after it is once form¬
ed. Vanity and precipitance are the great fources1 of
fcepticifm: hurried on by thefe, inltead of attendin'! to
the cool and deliberate principles recommended by the
academy, feveral of our modern philofophers have plun¬
ged themfelves into an abfurd and ridiculous kind of feup-
ticifm. They pretend to diferedit things that are plain,
Ample, and eafily comprehended; but give peremptory
and decifive judgments upon fubjeefs that evidently ex¬
ceed the limits of our capacity. Of thefe Berkley and
Hume are the moll confiderable. Berkley denied the
exiltence of every thing, excepting his own ideas. Mr
Hume has gone a ftep further, and queftioned even the
exiftence of ideas; but at the fame time has not hefi-
tated to give determined opinions with regard to eter¬
nity, providence, and a future Hate, miraculous inter-
pofitions of the Deity, <&c. fubjeds far above the
reach of our faculties. In his efl’ay on the academical
or fceptical philofophy, he has confounded two very
oppofite fpecies of philofophy. After the days of
Plato, indeed, the principles of the firft academy were
grofsly corrupted by Arcdilas, Carneades, 6v. This
might lead Mr Hume into the notion that the acade¬
mical and fcepiical philofophy were fynonimous terms.
But no principles can be of a more oppofite nature
f C than
A C A ( ro ) A C A
than thofe which were inculcated by the old academy
of Socrates and Plato, and the fceptical notions which
were propagated by Arcefilas, Carneades, and the o-
ther difciples of the fucceeding academics.
ACADEMY, in antiquity, a garden or villa, fituated
v/ithin a mile of Athens, where Plato and his follow¬
ers held their philofophical conferences. It took its
name from one Academus, or Ecademus, a citizen of
Athens, who was the original owner of it, and made
it a kind of gymnafium : he lived in the time of The-
feus. Cimon embellifhed it with fountains, trees,
and walks; but Sylla, during the fiege of Athens,
employed thefe very trees in making battering-engines
againft the city. Cicero too had his villa, or place
of retirement, near Puzzuoli, which he alfo named an
academy, where he compofed his Academical que-
Jlions, and his book De natura deoruni.
Academy, among the moderns, is moft commonly ufed
to fignify a fociety of learned men, eftablilhed for the
improvement of any art or fcience. Charlemagne was
the firft that eftablilhed an academy in Europe. Moft
nations have fince followed his example -, but Italy
has by far the greateft number. In the cities of
Piedmont, Ferrara, and Milan, Jarckius reckons 550.
We have but few in Britain. In England thofe of
note are, the Royal Society, the Antiquarian Society,
Society for the encouragement of arts, and the Aca¬
demy of Painting; in Scotland, the Edinburgh So¬
ciety, College of Phyfxcians, and Mufical Society;
all which fee in their proper places.
The French have feveral academies ; as, the Royal
Academy of Sciences, for the improvement of phy-
fics, mathematics, and chemiftry. It was firft infti-
tuted in 1666, by the afliftance of Mr Colbert,
comptroller-general of the finances, but was not con¬
firmed by the French king till the year 1696, who,
by a regulation dated the 26th of January, new-mo¬
delled and put it on a better footing. According to
this regulation, the academy was to be compofed of
ten honorary academicians, eight ftrangers aflbciates,
twenty penfionaries fellows, twenty eleves or fcholars,
and twelve French affociates; thefe were to be divi¬
ded into fix claffes, viz. geometricians, aftronomers,
mechanics, anatomifts, chemifts, and botanifts; the
honorary academifts to be all inhabitants of France,
the penfionaries and eleves all to refide at Paris.
In the year 1716, the duke of Orleans, then re¬
gent, made an alteration in their conftitution, aug¬
menting the number of honoraries and affociates to
twelve, admitting regulars among fuch affociates, fup-
prefiing the clafs of eleves, and eftablifhing in lieu
thereof a new clafs of twelve adjunfts to the fix feve-
ral kinds of fcience cultivated by the academy; and,
laftly, appointing a vice-prefident, to be chofen yearly
by the king out of the honorary members, and a di-
xedtor and fub-diredfor out of the penfionaries.
The academies of Florence and Bologne, of Mont¬
pelier and Bourdeaux, of Leipfic and Berlin, and of
late thofe of Peterlburg and Seville, were formed up¬
on the fame model with the Royal Academy of Sci¬
ences.
French Academy, a fociety of forty, eftablilhed for
improving the French language.
This academy was founded by Cardinal Richlieu,
and confirmed by the edidt of Lewis XIII. in 1635.
They have compiled a didtionary, intitled, Le Dic-
tionaire de 1'academie Francoife. This work was
begun in 1637, and finilhed in 1694. They have a
diredtor and chancellor, who are drawn by lot every
three months, and a fecretary who is perpetual. They
meet at the old Louvre, on the Mondays, Thurfdays,
and Saturdays, all the year round, and hold an ex¬
traordinary meeting at the reception of a new mem¬
ber, and on St Lewis’s day, when the prizes of elo¬
quence and poetry are adjudged.
Royal Academy of Painting and Sculpture. This fo¬
ciety was founded about the year 1648. The mem¬
bers were at firft about twenty-five in number, viz.
twelve officers, called ancients, eleven private mem¬
bers, and two fyndics; but at prefent it confifts of
forty painters and fculptors. There are four perpe¬
tual redtors, nominated by the king; a diredtor and
chancellor; a fecretary, who keeps the regifter, and
counterfigns the difpatches; a treafurer, twelve pro-
feffors, adjundts to the redtors and profefibrs, fix
counfellors, a profefibr for the part of anatomy that
belongs to painting and fculpture, and another for
geometry and perfpedtive.
There is alfo an academy of painting, fculpture,
<bc. at Rome, eftabliffied by Lewis XIV. wherein
thofe who have won the annual prize at Paris, are en¬
titled to be three years entertained for their further
improvement.
Academy of Medals and Inferiptions, called alfo The
academy of belles lettres, was eredted by Lewis XIV.
for the ftudy and explanation of ancient monuments,
and to perpetuate the remembrance of great events,
by medals, relievos, inferiptions, <bc. The plan of
this academy was formed by Mr Colbert, and efta¬
bliffied in 1663. In its firft inftitution it confided
only of four or five members; but in 1701, they were
increafed to. forty, viz. ten honoraries, ten penfiona¬
ries, ten affociates, and ten novices or eleves, under
the diredtion of a prefident and vice-prefident, who
are annually appointed by the king.
Their chief employment has been upon the medal-
lie hiftory of the reign of Lewis their founder. But
the learned are indebted to this academy for many
volumes of effays on other parts of hiftory, publiffied
under the title of Memoirs, &c.
Academy of Architeflure, eftabliffied about the end of
the year 1671 by Mr Colbert, confided at firft only
of fix architects ; but their number is fince confiderably
increafed.
Academy of Politics, is compofed of fix perfons, who
meet at the Louvre, in the chamber where the papers
relating to foreign affairs are lodged. But as the
kings of France are unwilling to truft any, except their
minifters, with the infpedtion of foreign affairs, this
academy is of little ufe to the public.
Royal Academy of Dancing was eftabliffied by the King
of France in 1661. It conlifts of thirteen able dancing-
tnafters.
A C A (i
matters, who meet once a-month ; and two of the aca-
demifts teach by turns the art of dancing, ancient and
modern.
The French have alfo academies in moft of their
great cities, as, the Academy of Sciences at Mont¬
pelier, that of the Lanternifts at Thouloufe ; befides
others at Nifmes, Arles, Angiers, Lyons, Caen in
Normandy, &c.; and the ChirurgicaJ Academy at
Paris is a modern inftrtution for the general improve¬
ment of the art, and to compile and publilh the an¬
cient and modern hiftory of it.
Royal Spanijh Academy at Madrid, has for its objedt
the cultivation of the Caftilian tongue, and was etta-
blifhed in &714 by the Duke d’Efcalona, with the ap¬
probation of the King of Spain. It confifts of twenty-
four academifts, including the director and fecretary.
In Portugal, John V. founded an hiftorical academy
at Lifbon, in the year 1720, for colledling and afcer-
taining the hiftory of his own dominions. It confifts
of fifty members, a diredor, four cenfors, and a fe¬
cretary.
In Germany, they have the Academy of Nattine
Curioji, otherwife called the Leopoldine Academy,
founded in 165:2 by Jo. Laur. Baufch a phyfician,
and, in 1670, taken under the protedHon of the Em¬
peror Leopold. The defign of this fociety was to
promote medical knowledge. They began in 1684 to
publifii their obfervations, under the title of Epberne-
rides ; which publication has been continued annually,
with fome interruptions, and under different titles.
This academy confifts of a prefident, two adjunds or
fecretaries, and colleagues or members without limi¬
tation.
Berlin Academy, was founded by Frederick I. the
late King of Pruffia, in the year 1700. It has for
its objeds the improvement of natural knowledge, and
the belles lettres. The charter of this fociety was
amended in 1710, and by it the prefident is to be no¬
minated by the king. The members are divided into
four claffes ; 1. for phyfic, medicine, and chemiftry;
2. for mathematics, aftronomy, and mechanics; 3. for
the German language, and the hiftory of the country;
4. for Oriental learning, particularly what relates to
the propagation of the gofpel among infidels. The
great promoter of this foundation was the celebrated
Mr Leibnitz.
RuJJian Academy was founded by Czar Peter the Great,
at Peterlburg, upon the plan of the Academy of Sci-
- ences at Paris ; befides which, they take in the Ruf¬
fian language.
Academy is alfo a term for fchools and other feminaries
of learning among the Jews, where their rabbins and
dodors inftruded their youth in the Hebrew language,
and explained to them the Talmud, and the fecrets of
the Cabbala: Thofe of Tiberias and Babylon have
been the moft noted.
Academy is often ufed with us to denote a kind of col¬
legiate fchool, where youth are inftruded in arts and
fciences. There is one at Portimouth for teaching
navigation, drawing, <bc.; another at Woolwich, for
fortification, gunnery, &c.
i ) A C A
Academy is likev/ife a name given to a riding-fchool,
where young gentlemen are taught to ride the great
horfe, <&c. and the ground allotted for it is ufually
called the Menage.
Academy Ajar:?, a drawing of a naked man or wo¬
man, taken from the life, which is ufually done on
paper with red or black chalk, and fometimes with
- paftils or crayons.
ACADIE, or Acadia, in geography, a name former¬
ly given to Nova Scotia, one of our American colo¬
nies. See Nova Scotia.
AC/ENA, in antiquity, a Grecian meafure of length,
being a ten feet rod, ufed in meafuring their lands.
ACAIABA. See Acajou.
ACAJA, in botany, a fynonime of the fpondias lutea,
an American tree. See Spondias.
ACAJOU, in botany, a fynonime of the anacardium oc-
cidentale, or cafbew-nut-tree. See Anacardium.
ACALEPTIC, in ancient profody, a complete verfe.
ACALIS, in botany, an obfolete name of the Cerato-
nia. See Ceratonia.
ACALYPHA, in botany, a genus of plants belonging
to the moncecia monadelphia clafs. There are only
four fpecies of this plant; the acalypha virginica,
which is a native of Ceylon; the virgata, indica, and
auftralis, all natives of America. Sir Hans Sloan
ranks this plant with the nettle, under the name of ur-
tica minor inert fpicata.
ACAMATOS, a word ufed to exprefs the beft lhape of
the human body.
ACAMBOU, a kingdom on the coaft of Guinea in A-
frica.
ACAMEEH, among fome of the old chemifts, the fco-
rias of filver; as alfo a fuperfluity of the humidum ra-
dicale.
ACANACEOUS plants, fuch as are armed with
prickles.
ACANAPHORA, in botany, an obfolete name of the
centaurea jacea, or knapweed. See Centaurea.
ACANES, in geography. SccAkanis.
ACANGIS, that is, ravagers ox adventurers', a name-
which the Turks give their huffars or light-troops>
who are generally lent out in detachments to procure
intelligence, harafs the enemy, or ravage the country.
ACANNY, an inland country on the gold coaft of Gui¬
nea in Africa, which affords the bell gold, and in
great plenty. There is a town or village of the fame
name, W. long. o. 5. lat. 8. 30.
ACANTHA, in botany, the prickle of any plant.
Acantha, in zoology, a term for the fpine or prickly
fins of fifties.
ACANTHA, in anatomy, an obfolete term for the fpi-
nal proceffes of the back.
ACANTHAEOLUS, in furgery, an inftrument for
pulling thorns, or the like, out of the flcin.
ACANTHACEOUS, among ancient botanifts, an epi¬
thet given to thirties and other prickly plants.
ACANTHE, in botany, an obfolete name for the Cy-
nara or artichoak. See Cynara.
ACANTHIAS, in ichthyology, the trivial name of a
fpecies of fqualus. SeeSouALus.
ACAN:
A C A (
ACANTHINE, any thing refembling nr belonging to
the herb acanthus. Acanthine garments, among the
ancients, are faid to be made of the down of thirties;
others think they were garments embroidered in imi¬
tation of the acanthus.
ACANTHIUM, in botany, the trivial name of a fpe-
cies of onopordum. See Onopordum.
ACANTHOIDES, in botany, a fynonime of the car-
lina, or carline-thiille. See Carl in a.
ACANTHOPTERYGIOUS fijhes, a term ufed by
Linnaeus and others for thofe fifties whofe back-fins are
hard, ofleous, and prickly.
ACANTHUS, bears-breach, or brank-urfine, in bota¬
ny, a genus of plants belonging to the didynamia an-
giofpermia clafs. There are only five fpecies of this
plant, all of which are natives either of Italy or the
Indies. For its figure, which is extremely beautiful,
fee plate I. fig. 3. The leaves of the acanthus are
famous for having given rife to the capital of the Co¬
rinthian order of architecture.
Acanthus is likewife ufed by Theophraftus as a fyno¬
nime of the acacia.
Acanthus, in architecture, an ornament reprefenting
the leaves of the acanthus, ufed in the capitals of the
Corinthian and Compofite orders. See Architec¬
ture.
AC AN US, in botany, a fynonime of the carduus cafa-
bonas of Linnaeus. See Carduus.
ACAPATLI, the American name of the piper longum,
or long pepper. See Piper.
ACAPNON, in botany, an obfolete name of the origa¬
num or marjoram. See Origanum.
ACAPULCO, in geography, a fea-port town in North
America, in 102. o. W. long. 17. 3. N. lat. fituated
in the province of Mexico, on a fine bay of the South-
fea, from whence a Ihip fails annually to Manilla in
the Philippine illands.
AC ARA, in ichthyology, an obfolete name of the perca
chryfoptera. See Perca.
ACARA-AYA, in ichthyology, an obfolete name of a
fpecies of the cyprinus or carp. See Cyprinus.
ACARA-PEBA, in ichthyology, an obiolete name of
the fparus. See Sparus.
ACARA-PINIMA, in ichthyology, an obfolete name
of the fparus cantharus. See Sparus.
AC ARA-PITAMBA, in ichthyology, an obfolete name
of a fpecies of the mugil. See Mugil.
ACARAI, a town in Paraguay in South America, built
by the Jefuits in 1624, 116. 40. long. 26. o. S. lat.
ACARI. SeeAcARus. .
ACARICOBA, in botany, a fynonime of the hydroco-
tyle umbellata. See Hydrocotyle.
ACARNA, in botany, afynonime of the carduus caufa-
bonse, of the cnicus, of the carlina lanata, corymbo-
ia, racemofa, and cancellata. Acarna is alfo ufed by
Vaillant as a term for cynaracephalous or artichoak-
hpaded plants.
ACARN.iN, an obfolete name of the fparus erythry-
nus. See Sparus.
AC ARON," the name of the god of flies. The Ekron-
ites called him Jiaalzebub.
ACARUS, a genus of infers belonging to the order of
aptera, or fuch as have no wings. The acarus has 8
legs, 2 eyes, one on each fide of the head, and two
jointed tentaCulalike feet. See plate I. fig. 4. There
are thirty-one fpecies of the acarus. 1. Theelephan-
tinos, is about the fize of a white lupin leed, has a
deprefled orbicular livid body, thickeft at the edges,
with three furrows on each fide of the belly, and a
black oval trifid fpot at the bafe or end of the body.
It is a native of India. 2. The segyptius, is of an
oval ftiape, yellowifti colour, and a white edge or
margin. It is a native of the Eaft. 3. The redu-
vius is plain and oval, with an oval fpot at the bafe.
It lives on oxen and dogs. 4. The americanus, is
reddiftr and oval, with the fcutellum and joints of the
feet white. It is a native of America. 4. The fanguifu-
gus. The hinder part of the abdomen is crenated, the
fcutellum is oval and yellowifti, and the beak is trifid.
It is a native of America, and flicks fo fart on the kgs
of travellers, fucking their blood, that they can hard¬
ly be extracted. 6. The ricinus is globular, and has
a round fpot at the bale ; the feelers are clubbed. It
inhabits the bodies of dogs and oxen. 7. The can-
croides, with nippers like a crab, and an oval depreif-
ed belly. It is found in the ftiady places of Eu¬
rope. 8. The fcorpioides, with crab-hke nippers, a
cylindrical belly, and a finail pendulous head. It is
of a yellowifti colour; and its bite is venomous It
is a native of America. 9. The craffipes has the fe-
cond pair of legs lhaped like thofe of a crab, and is a
native of Europe. 10. The pafferinus has the third
pair of legs remarkably thicker than the reft. It in-
fefts feveral fpecies of fparrows. n. The motato-
rius has the firft pair of legs very long and nimble^
and frequents the woods. 12. The aphidioides has
the firft pair of feet longeft, and two fmall horns at
the hinder part of the belly. It is a native of Eu¬
rope. 13. The coleoptratus is black, and the fides
are a little cruftaceous. It is a native of Europe.
14. The felarius is of a greenilh yellow colour It
has a fmall fling or weapon, with which it wounds
the leaves of plants, and occafions them to fold back¬
ward. They are very frequently to be met with in
the autumn, inclofed in the folded leaves of the lime-
tree. 15. The firo has lob-like fides ; the four hin¬
der feet are longeft; the head and thighs are of an
iron colour, and the belly is briftly. It inhabits
the farinaceous plants of Europe and America. x6.
The exulcerans has very long fetaceous legs, but the
two firft are ftiort. It inhabits the fcabks. 17. The
geniculatus, is black, and the joints of the thighs are
globular 18. The aquatieus has a deprefled red
belly, and the hinder part of it obtule. It inhabits
the frefh waters of Europe. 19. The holofericeus
has the fame characters with the former, only it does
not live in water. 20. The baccarum, has a red di-
ftended belly, and lives on goofeberries, &c. 21. Thq
mufeorum, is of a yellowifti red colour, and the hin¬
der kgs are long and threed-like. It inhabits mof-
fies. 22. The batatas, is of a blood-colour, and a
little rough; the fore pair of kgs are as long as the
body.
ACC
body. It inhabits the potatoes of Surinam. 23. The
gymnopterorum, is reddifh, with two fcarlet Ipots on
each fide. It inhabits bees, <bc. 24. The coleop-
tratorum, is reddifh, with a white anus. It inhabits
the fcarabseus. 25. The rupeftris, isyellowifh, with
a double coloured line on the back. It is a native of
Europe. 26. The longicornis, i.s red, and the feel¬
ers are longer than the fnout. It is a native of Eu¬
rope. 2 7. The littoralis, is of a tawny yellowifti co¬
lour, and has blood-red legs. It frequents the fhores
of Europe. 28 Thefungorum is of a yellowifh co¬
lour, and has a globular clammy belly. It inhabits
the mufhroom. 29. The fcaber, is alh-coloured, and
depreffed; the Gdes are fcurfy. It is a native of Eu¬
rope. 30. The falicinus, is red, with two yellow
lines on the back; it is forked before. It dwells on
the willows. 31. The croeeus, is yellow, with a
reddifh fpot on each fide of the breaft.
ACATALECTIC, a term, in the ancient poetry, for
fuch verfes as have all their feet or fyllables, in con-
tradiftindtion to thofe that have a fyllable too few.
ACATALEPSY, fignifies the impoffibility of compre¬
hending any thing.
ACATALIS, a name given by the ancients to the juni¬
per-berry.
ACATASTATOS, with phyficians, fignifies the irre¬
gular paroxyfms of a difeafe.
ACATERY, or Accatry, an officer of the king’s
houfehold, defigned for a check betwixt the clerks of
the kitchen and the purveyors.
ACATHARSIA, an impurity of the blood or humours.
ACATHISTU3, in an ecclefiaftical fenfe, a folemn
hymn anciently fung in the Greek church on the Sa¬
turday of the fifth week of Lent, in honour of the
Virgin, for having thrice delivered Conftantinople from
the invafions of the barbarous nations.
ACATIUM, in antiquity, a kind of boat ufed in mili¬
tary affairs, and was a fpecies of the naves aduariae.
See Actuaria; Naves.
ACATSIA-VALLI, in botany, a fynonime of the caf-
fitha filiformis. See Cassitha.
ACAULIS, in botany, figniiies plants that have nocau-
lis or ftem.
ACCALIA, in antiquity, folemn feafts held in honour
of Acca Laurentia, nurfe to Romulus. They were
otherwife called Laurentalia. .-To the fame Ac-
ea is alfo afcribed the infHtutioa of the fratres ar-
vales.
ACCAPITARE, in law, the ad of becoming vaflal of
a lord, or of yielding him homage and obedience. See
Vassal and Homage,
ACC APITUjM, fignifies the money paid by a vaflal up¬
on his admiffion to a feud.
Accapitum, in our ancient law, was ufed alfo to ex¬
press the relief due to the chief lord. See Relief.
ACCEDAS ad' curiam, in the Englifh law, a writ ly¬
ing, where a man has received, or fears falfe judg¬
ment, in an inferior court; it lies alfo for juftice de¬
layed, and is a fpecies of the writ recordarc.
ACCEDONES. See Accendone*
ACCELER ATED, implies, in a general fenfe, quick-
Vol. 1. No. 1. 3
ACC
ened, continually increafing. Thus, accelerated mo¬
tion is a motion continually increafing. See Mecha¬
nics.
ACCELERATION, an increafe of velocity in the mo¬
tion of a body; it is oppofed to retardation, which is
a diminution of motion.
Acceleration, is alfo a term ufed by ancient aflro-
nomers, with whom it fignified the difference between
the revolution of the prinium mobile, and that of the
fun, computed to be three minutes and fifty-fix fe-
conds.
ACCELERATOR, in anatomy, the name of two muf-
cles of the penis, which ferve for ejecting the urine or
femen. See Anatomy, Part VI.
ACCENDENTES, a lower order of minifters in the
Romifh church, whofe office is to light and trim the
candles.
ACCENDONES, in Roman antiquity, a fort of gla¬
diators, whofe office was to excite and animate the
combatants during the engagement. See Gladiator.
ACCENSI, among the ancient Romans, a kind of fu-
pernumerary foldiers, who ferved to fill the places of
thofe who were killed or difabled by their wounds.
Ac GEN'S I feren-Jes, among the Romans, an inferior or¬
der of officers, who attended the magiftrates in the
manner of our uffiers, ferjeants, or tipftaffs.
ACCENSICN, in chemifiry, the a<3ion of fetting a bo¬
dy on fire : thus the accenfion of tinder is effected by
ftriking fire with flint and fteel.
ACCENT, or accenting, in reading or fpeaking : When
we raife the tone higher in founding any particular
word or fyllable, that word or fyllable is faid to be
accented, or graced with an accent. In hexameters
there is a capital accent in every line, eafily dillin*
guifliable from the reft by a good ear. Thus,
Nec bene promeritis cap it dr, nec tar.gitur ira.
Accents either in profe or poetry have a double effe<ft :
They contribute to the melody, by giving it air and
fpirit; they contribute not lefs to the fenfe, by diftin-
guilhing words of importance from others. Accent¬
ing is entirely confined to long fyllables ; for a ffiorfl
fyllable is not capable of an accent. Every word in
an hexameter line that has a long fyllable may be ac¬
cented, unlefs the fenfe interpofe, which rejects the
accenting a word that makes no figure by its fignifica-*
tion. But, notwithftanding this circumftance, there
is conftantly one accent in every line which makes a
greater figure than any of the reft. Thus,.
Smooth flow the waves, the zephyrs, gently playt
Belinda frntl'd, and all the world was gay.
In order to facilitate the reading of dead languages,
grammarians have adopted various characters for cli-
ftinguilhing the accents belonging to particular fylla¬
bles ; fuch as the acute, marked thus, (''), the grave
thus (' ), and the circumflex thus ("), or’(* )', iac. The
acute denotes that the voice is to be raifed; the
grave, that it is to be lowered or flattened ; and the
circumflex, that the fyllable is to be lengthened or
dwelt upon.
1r
( 13 )
D
Accent
ACC ( r
Accent, in mufic, is a certain modulation of founds to
exprefs a pailion, whether by the voice or inftruments.
See Music.
ACCENTER, in mufic, one of the three fingers in a
trio, viz. the perfon who fings the higheft part. See
Trio.
ACCEPTANCE, in Scots law, denotes either a per-
fon’s adhibiting his fubfcription to a bill or draught,
by which he fubjefts himfelf to the payment of it ; or
accepting or agreeing to offers made in bargaining, by
which the bargain is concluded.
Acceptance, in the church of Rome, is put for recei¬
ving the Pope’s conllitutions.
Acceptance, in commerce, is the fubfcribing, fign-
ing, and making one’s felf debtor for the fum contain¬
ed in a bill of exchange, or other obligation. See
Bills.
ACCEPTATION, in grammar, the fenfe or meaning
wherein any word is taken.
ACCEPTER, or Acceptor, the perfon who accepts
a bill of exchange, <bc.
ACCEPTION, the fame with acceptation.
ACCEPTILATION, among civilians, an acquittance
or difcharge given by the creditor to the debtor with¬
out the payment of any value.
ACCESS, the approach of one perfon or thing to an¬
other. It is alfo uled by phyficians for the beginning
of a paroxifm.
ACCESSARY, or Accessory, in law. See Acces¬
sory.
ACCESSIBLE, fomething that may be approached, or
that accefs may be had to. Thus we fay. Such a
place is accefiible on one fide, <bc.
ACCESSION, in Scots law, is a method of acquiring
property, by which, in things that have a clofe con¬
nexion or dependence upon one another, the property
of the principal thing draws after it the property of the
acceflbry. Thus, the owner of a cow becomes like-
wife the owner of the calf. See Law, title, Divi-
Jion of rights. It fometimes likewlfe lignifies con-
fent or acquiefcence.
Accession, among phylicians, is ufed for a paroxyfm
of a difeafe; among politicians, it fignifies a prince’s
fucceeding to the government upon thp death of his
predeceflbr.
ACCESSORY, in Scots law, is the fubjedt acquired
by acceflion ; or, in crimes, it lignifies the perfon by
whofe alliftance, advice, or command, the crime was
committed : In this latter fenfe, it is the fame with
accomplice, art and part, <bc. See Law, title. Crimes.
Accessory nerve. See Anatomy, Part V.
ACCIB, a name given by fome authors to lead.
ACCIDENT, in a general fenfe, denotes any cafual e-
vent.
Accident, in logic, fignifies fecondary qualities, or
fuch as do not efientially belong to any fubjedt.
Accident, in grammar. See Grammar.
Accident, in heraldry, an additional point or mark
in a coat of arms, which may be either omitted or re¬
tained without altering the elfence of the armour;
fuch as, abatements, differences, and tintture.
I ) ACC
Accident, among phyficians, an obfolete term for a
fymptom.
ACCIDENTS, in aftrology, the moft remarkable oc¬
currences in a man’s life.
Abfolute Accident, in the Romilh church, an accident
which may poffibly fubfift, at lead: miraculoufly, with¬
out a fubjedt; which is unintelligible jargon.
Accidental, fomething that happens by accident, or
a mode that is not efl'ential to its fubjedt.
Accidental in perfpedtive. See Perspective.
Accidental dignities and debilities, in aftrology, cer¬
tain cafual difpofitions of the planets, whereby they
are fuppofcd to be either ftrengthened or weakened.
ACCIPENSER, in ichthyology, a genus of fifties be¬
longing to the Amphibia Nantes of Linnasus. The ac-
cipenfer has a fingle linear noftril: the mouth is in the
under part of the head, and contains no teeth; the
cirri are below the fnout, and before the mouth.
There are four fpecies of this genus, viz. i The
fturio, or fturgeon, with 4 cirri, and 11 fquamous pro¬
tuberances on the back. It inhabits the European
feas. This fifh was fo greatly efteemed in the time of
Severus, that he ordered it to be carried to his feafts
by fervants crowned with garlands, and trumpets play¬
ing before. See Plate I. fig 5. 2. The ruthenus
has 4 cirri, and 15 fquamous protuberances. It is a
native of Ruffia. 3. The hufo has 4 cirri; the bo¬
dy is naked, e. has no prickles or protuberances.
The fldn of the hufo is fo tough and ftrong, that it
is employed for ropes in carts and other wheel-car¬
riages. Ifinglafs is alfo made of the Ikin of this fifti,
and its eggs are fometimes made into pickles. It in¬
habits the Danube, and the rivers of Ruflia. See
Plate I. fig. 6. 4. The plecoftomus, which is diftin-
guilhed from the other three by having only 2 cirri.
It is a native of Surinam. The whole four fpecies are
viviparous.
ACCIPENSIUS. See Accipenser.
ACCIPITER, the name of Linnaeus’s fiift order of birds.
The birds belonging to this order have crooked beaks.
This order comprehends only four genera, viz. The
vultur, falco, ftrix, and lanius. See Vultur, &c.
ACCIPITRINA, an obfolete name of the hierachium
or hawkweed. See Hierachium.
ACCISMUS, in antiquity, fignifies a feigned refufal of
what one earneftly defires.
Ac c ism us, in rhetoric, is accounted a fpecies of iro¬
ny. See Irony.
ACCLAMATION, any exprefiion of joy, or applaufe,
whereby the public teftifies its approbation.
Acclamation is alfo ufed, in a bad fenfe, for expref-
fions of deteftation.
Accla.mation, in rhetoric, a figure, the fame with E-
piphonema, which fee.
Acclamation medals, among antiquaries, fuch as re-
prefent the people expreffing their joy in the pofture
of acclamation.
ACCLIVUS, in anatomy, a fynonime of the obfiquus
afcendens mufcle. See Anatomy, Part II.
ACCLIVITY, the rife or afcent of a hill, in oppofi-
tion to the declivity or defcect of it. Some wri-
Elate I.
ACC (
ters in Fortification ufe it for the talus of a rampart.
ACCLOYED, in farriery, fignifies pricked. Thus a
horfe’s foot pricked in fhoeing, is faid to be accloyed.
ACCOLA, among the Romans, fignified that a perfon
lived near fome place.
ACCOLADE, in antiquity, one of the forms of con¬
ferring knighthood, in which the prince laid his arms
about the neck of the young knight, embraced him,
and, fome fay, gave him a blow on the cheek, neck,
or Ihoulder, in imitation of the form of manumiffion
among the Romans.
ACCOLEE, fometimes fynonomous with Accolade,
which fee. — It is alfo ufed in divers fenfes in herald¬
ry : Sometimes it is applied to two things joined; at
other times, to animals with crowns, or collars a-
bout their necks, as the lion in the Ogilvy’s arms ;
and laftly to kews, buttons, maces, fwords, be. pla¬
ced faltier-wife behind the ihield.
ACCOMMOD. \TION, making two or more things a-
gree with one another.—Among divines, it is apply¬
ing what is originally faid of one perfon, or thing, to
another: Thus the words of Ifaiah to the Jews of his
time, are, by our Saviour, accommodated to his con-
tempories, and by St Paul to his.—In law, it fignifies
the amicable iffue of a debate. Which is effected
fometimes by mediation of friends, fometimes by fub-
miflion, and fometimes by a divifion of the fubjedt in
debate.
ACCOMPAGNAGE, a term in the filk manufadtures,
fignifying a fine woof of the fame colour with the gild¬
ing, helping to enrich the ground under which it paf-
fes, and to hinder it from linking crofs the gilding it-
felf, which would diminifh its glofs and lultre. All
rich Huffs, the warps whereof are of a colour diffe¬
rent from the gilding, fhould be accompanied.
ACCOMPANIMENT, fome thing attending or added
as a circumflance to another, either by way of orna¬
ment, or for the fake of fymmetry. See Circum¬
stance.
Accompaniment, in mufic, thefe parts that are ad¬
ded to render the harmony more full and complete, as
an inflrument accompanying a voice. Among the mo¬
derns, the accompaniment frequently plays a different
melody from the fong it accompanies; but authors are
not agreed whether it was fo among the ancients.
See Music.
Accompaniment, in painting, denotes fuch pbjedfs as
are added, either by way of ornament, or probability,
as dogs, guns, game, be. in a hunting piece. See
Painting.
Accompaniment, in heraldry, any thing added to a
fhield by way of ornament; as the belt, mantling,
fupporters, be. It is alfo applied to feveral bear¬
ings about a principal one; as a faltier, bend, fefs,
chevron, be.
ACCOMPLICE, in law. See Accessory.
LISHMENT, the entire execution or ful¬
filling of any thing.
Accomplishment, is alfo ufed for any mental or per-
fonal endowment.
ACCOMPT. See Account.
15 ) ACC
ACCOMPTANT. See Accountant.
ACCORD, in mufic. See Concord.
Accord, in law, an accommodation between parties at
variance, by means of an offer made by the one, and
accepted by the other.
Accord, in painting, is the harmony that reigns among
the lights and fhades of a picture.
ACCORNED, in heraldry : When any figure of an ani¬
mal, in an efcutcheon, has horns of a different colour
from thofe of the real animal, then it is faid to be
accorned.
ACCOUNT, or Accompt, in a general fenfe, a com¬
putation or reckoning of any thing by numbers. Col-
ledtively, it is ufed to exprefs the books which mer¬
chants, traders, bankers, <Gc. ufe for receding their
tranfadions in bufinefs. See Book-keeping.
Account in company, is an account betwixt partners
relating to the tranfadions of their joint concern. See
Book-keeping.
Account of fa las, is an account given by one mer¬
chant to another, or by a fador to his principal, of
the difpofal, charges, commiflion, and nett proceeds of
certain merchandifes fent for the proper or company
account of him that configned them to fuch fador or
vender. See Book-keeping.
Account current,—of goods. See Book-keeping.
Account in bank, a fund which it is common for
merchants or others to furnifh themfelves with in the
cafh of a bank, to be in readinefs for the payment of
bills of exchange, purchafes, be.
Auditing an Account, is the examining and paffing
an account by an officer appointed for the purpofe. See
Auditor.
Chamber of Accounts, in the French polity, is a fo-
vereign court of great antiquity, which takes cogni¬
zance of, and regiflers the accounts of the king’s re¬
venue. It is nearly the fame with the Engliih Court
0/Exchequer; which fee.
Account in the remembrancer's office, in the exche¬
quer, is the Hate of any branch of the king’s revenue;
as the account of the mint, of the wardrobe, of the
army, navy, be.
Account, in law, the adion that lies againfl a perfon
who is accountable by office to another, but refufes to
render the account.
Account, is alfo taken fometimes, in a particular fenfe,
for the computation of time; as we fay. The Julian
account, the Gregorian account, be. in which fenfe
it is equivalent to fyle.
Account is alfo ufed in fundry mercantile forms of
expreffion for advantage, hazard, lofs, be.
ACCOUNTABLE, a term ufed to denote a perfon’s
being liable to render an account for any thing.
ACCOUNTANT, or Accomptant, in the moll ge¬
neral fenfe, is a perfon /killed in accounts. In a more
reftrided fenfe, it is applied to a perfon, or officer,
appointed to keep the accounts of a public company,
or office, as the South-fea, the India company, the
bank, the excife, be.
ACCOUNTANTSHIP, the art of keeping and balan¬
cing accounts. See Book-keeping.
ACCOUNT-
ACC ( *<5 ) ACE
ACCOUNTANT-GENERAL, a new officer in the
court of Chancery appointed by aft of parliament to
receive all moneys lodged in court inftead of the ma¬
ilers, and convey the fame to the bank of England for
fecurity,
ACCOUNTING-HOUSE, counting-houfe, or compt-
ing-houfe, is a houfe, or office, fet apart by a mer¬
chant, or trading-company, for tranfafting their bufl-
nefs, as well as keeping their books, accounts, vouch¬
ers, <bc.
ACCOUTREMENT, an old term, applied to the fur¬
niture of a foldier, knight, or gentleman.
ACCRETION, in phyfics, the iacreafe, or growth, of
an organical body, by the acceflion of new parts.
Accretion, among civilians, the property acquired
in a vague or unoccupied thing, by its adhering to
or following another already occupied; thus, if a le¬
gacy be left to two perfons, one of whom dies before
the tedator, the legacy devolves to the furvivor by
right of accretion.
ACCROCHE, in heraldry, denotes a thing’s being hook¬
ed with another.
ACCROCHING, in old law-books, is incroaching up¬
on, or ufurping another man’s right.
ACCRUE, in law, any thing that is connefted to ano¬
ther as an appendage,
ACCUSATION, in antiquity, the poflure ufed by
the Greeks and Romans at table. The body was ex¬
tended, and the head reding on a pillow, or on the
elbow.
The Romans at their meals made ufe of a low round
table, around which two or three couches were placed in
proportion to the number of gueds; and hence it was
called biclinium, or triclinium. Thefe were covered
with a fort of bed-cloaths, and furnifhed with quilts and
pillows for leaning on. The gueds reclined on the left
fide, the fird at the head of the bed, with his feet be-
Jiind the back gf the fecond, <bc. Before they came
to table, they changed their cloaths, for what they
Called the coenatsria vejles, the dining garment, and
pulled off their fhoes to keep the couch clean.
ACCUBITOR, an ancient officer of the emperors of
Condantinople, whofe budnefs was to lie near the em¬
peror. He was the head of the youths of the bed¬
chamber, and had the cubicularius and procubitor un¬
der him.
ACCUMULATION, in a general fenfe, the aft of
heaping or amaffing things together. Among lawyers
it is ufed in fpeaking of the concurrence of feveral ti¬
tles to the fame thing, or of feveral circunxftances to
the fame proof.
Accumulation of degrees, in an univerfity, is the ta¬
king feveral of them together, or at fmaller intervals
than ufual, or titan is allowed by the rules of the uni¬
verfity.
ACCURATE. See Exactness.
ACCURSED, denotes fomething that lies under a curfe,
or is detedable. It is likewife ufed for an excommu¬
nicated perfon.
ACCUSATION, in law, the charging any perfon with
a criminal aftion, either in one’s own name, ©r that
of the public. It differs little from impeachment or
indiftment.
ACCUSATIVE. See Grammar.
AC-DENGHIS, a name given to the Archipelago by
the Turks.
ACE, a term among gameders, fignifying a card or die
marked with a fingle point.
ACENTETUM, or Acenteta, names ufed by the
ancients for the pured rock crydal. See Crystal,
ACEPHALI, or Acephalitje, a name given, in ec-
clefiadical hidory, to feveral fefts that were deditute
of any Read or leader; as alfo, to fuch biffiops as
were exempted from the jurifdiftion of a patriarch.
ACEPHALOUS, in our ancient law-books, an appel¬
lation given to fuch perfons as held nothing of any
fuperior.
ACEPHALUS, without a head.
Acephalus, an obfolete term for the tenia, or tape¬
worm. See Tenia.
Acephalus, is alfo ufed to exprefs a verfe defeftivein
the beginning.
ACER, in botany, the maple or fycomore tree, a ge¬
nus of the polygamia dioecia clafs. There are ten fpe-
cies of this genus. The calix of the female is quin-
quifide, the corolla pentapetalous, the damina eight,
one pidil, and two ieed-eapfules. The calix of the
male is alfo quinquifide, the corolla pentapetalous, and
the damina eight. There are only two fpecies of the
acer which are reckoned natives of England, viz. the
pfeudo-platanus, and the campedre.
ACERB, a four rough adringency of tade, fuch as that
of unripe fruit. See Astringent.
ACERENZA. SeeCiRENZA.
ACERIDES, fignifies a plader without any wax in its
compofition.
ACERINA, an abfoiete name of a fpecies of the perch,
a fiih of the thoracic order. See Perca.
ACERNO, a town of Italy, in the kingdom of Naples,
with a biffiop’s fee.. It is 17 miles S. W. of
Conra, and 12 N. E. of Salerno, long. 14. 23.
lat 40. 55.
ACERRA, "in antiquity, an altar erefted, among the
Romans, near the gate of a perfon deceafed, on which
hi? friends daily offered incenfe, till his burial.—The
Chinefe have dill a cudom like this ; they ereft an al¬
tar to the deceafed in a room hung with mourning,
and place- an image of the dead perfon on the altar;
to which every one that approaches it bows four times,
and offers oblations and perfumes.
Acerra, in geography, a town of Italy in the kingdom
of Naples, gnd in the terra di Lavoro. It dands on
the river Agno, 7 miles N. E. of Nhples, and 20
S. W. of Benevento, Ion. 14. 23. lat. 40. 55.
ACERRA!, the pots wherein incenfe v/as burnt.
ACERSECOMES, long-haired, a name of Apollo, l?e-
caufe he was ufually painted fo.
ACESTIDES, in foundery, a name given by the an¬
cients to the chimneys of their furnaces wherein bra^s
was made.
ACETABULUM, in antiquity, a little vafq or cup ufed
at table to ierve up fauces or feafoning. It alfo de¬
notes
Plate II
/tf/YW/
'yw/y/y
'//Yf/?tr//'
A C H
notes a Roman meafure, both for liquid and dry
things, equal to a cyathus and a half.
ACETABULUM, in anatomy, a cavity in any bone for
receiving the protuberant head of another, and thereby
forming that fpecies of articulation called enarthrofu.
, See Anatomy, Part I.
Acetabulum, in botany, the trivial name of a fpecies
of tire peziza, or cup-peziza, a fungus belonging to
' the cryptogamia fungi of Linnaeus. It has got the
name of acetabulum from the refemblance its leaves
bear to a cup. See Peziza.
ACETARY. Nehemiah Grew, in his anatomy of plants,
applies this term to a pulpy fubftance in certain fruits,
e. g. the pear, which is inclofed in a congeries of fmall
. calculous bodies towards the bafe of the fruit, and is
always of anacidtafte. See Agriculture, Se<ft. i.
ACETIFICATION, a term ufed by chemifls for the
making of vinegar.
ACETOSA, in botany, a fynonime of the rumex, or
forrel. See Rumex.
ACETOSE, or Acetous, an epithet applied to fuch
fubftances as are four, or partake of the nature of vi¬
negar.
ACETUM, vinegar, the vegetable acid of the chemifls.
See Chemistry, title, Of acids.
Acetum dijlillatum, in chemifhy, diddled vinegar.
Acetum efuriens, in chemidry, a diddled vinegar, rec¬
tified by the help of verdigreafe.
Acetum radicatum. Boerhaave thinks the tartarus
rsgeneratus is the acetum radicatum of the old che-
mids.
ACGIAH-SARAI, a town on the north fhore of the
Cafpian fea.
ACH, or Ache, in medicine, a term ufed for any fe-
vere pain, as head-ach, tooth-ach, <bc. See Medi¬
cine.
ACHAC, a barbarous name of a fpecies of the tetrao,
a bird of the order of gallinse. See Tetrao.
ACFLEINUS. See Achienus.
ACHAIA, a province of Turkey in Europe, now called
Livadia, of which Athens was anciently the capital,
at prefent named Saithines or Setines. See Li-
i vadia.
ACHALACTLI, in ornithology, a barbarous name of
. the columba cyanocephala. See Columba.
ACHAM, a country in the E. Indies, bounded on the
N. by Bouton, on the E. by China, on the S. by A-
va, and on the W. by Patan and Jefuat in Bengal.
It is very little known to the Europeans.
ACHANE, in Perfian antiquity, a corn-meafure, equal
to forty-five Attic medimni. See Medimni.
ACHANDES. See Remora.
ACHAOVA, in botany, an obfokte name of the marum
matricaria, <bc. See Marum.
ACHASSES, a river of Languedoc in France.
ACHAT, in the law-French, fignifies a contrail or
bargain, efpecially by way of purchafe.
ACHAT. See Ac at.
ACHATOR, in the old law-books, is ufed for Pur¬
veyor, which fee.
Vol. I. No. i. 3
ACH
ACHBALUC-MANGI, a town in the northern confines
of China.
ACHE, in medicine. See Ac h.
ACHECAMBEY, one of the Bahama ifiands. See
Bahama.
ACHELO, a town near the Euxine fea.
AGHEN, or Achem, a capital town of a kingdom of
the fame name, in the N. part of the ifland of Suma¬
tra, in the E. Indies. It extends as far as the line.
The inhabitants are generally very fuperditious. It
has for a confiderable time been a noted place for
trade ; and was formerly governed by a queen; but
in 1700, a Said, or Preacher, found means to ufurp
the government. Its principal produce is gold dull,
which is exceeding good. They punifli theft very fe-
verely; yet robbery and murder are very frequent a-
mong them. This town is feated by the fide of a ri¬
ver, and the king’s palace is in the middle of the
town, and is well fortified. It is 450 miles N. W.
of Malua, and 1000 S. E. of Fort St George, 95.55.
E. long. 5. 30. lat.
ACHERNER, in aftronomy, a ftar of the firfi: magni¬
tude in the fouthern extremity of the conftellation E-
ridanus. See Eridanus, and Astronomy.
ACHETA, an obfolete name of the gryilus or cricket.
See Gryllus.
ACHIAR, a Malayan word, fignifying a fort of fruit
or roots pickled with vinegar and fpice. See Ba mboe.
ACHIENUS, a name given by the ancients to the cer-
vus or ftag. See Cervus.
ACHILLAlA, in botany, a genus of plants belonging to
the fyngenefia polygamia fuperflua clafs. Of this genus
there are 21 fpecies, only two 'of which are natives of
Britain, viz. the achillsea millefolium, or common
yarrow, (fee Plate II. fig. 1,). and the achillsea ptar-
mica, or fneezewort.
Achillea, a name frequently given by the ancients to
the gum called dragons . blood. See Dragons-
BLOOD.
ACHILLEID, Achilleis, a celebrated poem of Sta¬
tius, in which that author propofed to deliver the
whole life and • exploits ‘ of Achilles ; but being pre¬
vented, by death, he has only treated of the infancy
and education of his hero.
Tendo ACHILLIS. See Anatomy, Part II.
ACHIMENES, in botany, a fynonime of the columnea
fcandens, a genus of the didynamia angiofpermia clafs.
See Columnea.
ACHIOTE. See Achiotte.
ACHIOTL, a name given to the drug aebiotte.
ACHIOTTE, an American drug, ufed in dying and in
making chocolate. It is produced from the mitella
diphylla, a tree which grows in Norifo America. Be¬
tween the finall filaments or leaves of this tree, little .
grains of a vermilion colour are found, which the In¬
dians make into cakes, and fend in this form to Eu¬
rope ; it is fuppofed to promote mine.
ACHIROPOETOS, a name given, by ancient writers,
to certain pictures of Chrift and the Virgin fuppofed
to have been miraculoufly made without hands.
f E ACHLAR,
( 17 )
A C I ( i!
ACHLAR, a river in America, called Araxis by rhe
ancients.
ACHLIS. SeeMACHns,
ACHLYS, in medicine, a dimnefs of fight, arifing from
any fear remaining after an ulcer in the cornea. It
is alfo ufed for the diforder called a fuffufeon of the
uterus.
ACHMETSCHET, a town of the peninfula of the
Crimea, the refidence of the fultan Galga, who is eld¬
ed: fon of the Khan of Tartary, 51.20. long. 45.0. lat.
ACHONRY, a fmall town of Ireland in the province of
Connaught, and county of Sligo, feated on the river
Shannon.
ACHOR, in medicine, fmall ulcers on the face which
difeharge a vifeid humour. See Medicine.
ACER AS, in botany, a genus of the hexandria mono-
gynia clafs. It bears a fruit not unlike the pear.
There are only three fpecies of the achras, viz. the
mimofa, the fapota, and the falicifolia, all natives of
America.
ACHRONICAL, Achronycal, or Acronychal.
See Acronical
ACHYR, a ftrong town and caftle of the Ukrain, fub-
jedt to the Ruffians fince 1667. It Hands on the river
Uorlklo near the frontiers of Ruffia, 127 miles W. of
Kiow, 36. o. long. 49. 32. lat.
ACHYRANTES, in botany, a genus of the pentandria
monogynia clafs. There are feven fpecies of the achy-
rantes, moft of them natives of the Indies.
ACHYR ANTE A, in botany, the trivial name of a fpe¬
cies of the illecebrum. See Illecebrum.
ACHYRONIA, in botany, an obfolete name of a genus
of the diadelphia decandria clafs.
ACHYROPHORUS, in botany, a fynonime of the fe-
riola. See Seriola.
ACIA, a term in the Roman furgery, about the mean¬
ing of which phyficians and commentators are greatly
divided; fome taking it for the needle, and others for
the thread.
ACICULAl, the fmall fpikes or prickles of the hedge¬
hog, echinus marinus, <bc.
ACIDS, fubftances which give a four, fharp, or tart
tafte. Among the chemifts, the acid falls are diftin-
guiffied into the nitrous, vitriolic, muriatic, and vege¬
table. See Chemistry, title. Of acids.
Acids, m the materia mecuca, are fueh medicines as
poflefs an acid quality; fueh as vinegar, fpirit of vi-
iriol, is. Thefe being powerful antifeptics, are e-
fteemed good in all purtrid and malignant difeafes, and,
by their cooling virtue, are no Ids efficacious in fe-
vepiffi and inflammatory cafes.
ACIDITY, that quality which renders bodies acid.
ACIDOTON, in botany, is both a fynonime and the
trivial name of a fpecies of the adelia. See Adelia.
ACIDULiE, a term for water or any fubftance impreg¬
nated with an acid.
ACIDULATED, a name given to medicines that have
an acid in their compofitipn.
ACIERNO, a town in the Hither Principality, in the
kingdom of Naples, with a biffiop’s fee. It is 15 miles
E. of Salerno, 37. o. E. long. 40. $2. lat.
1 ) a n o
ACINAIES, in antiquity, a kind of cutlafs, or feime-
ter, in ufe among the Perfians,
ACINARIA, in botany, a fynonime of the fucus acina-
rius, belonging to the cryptogamia algae of Linnaeus,
See Fucus.
ACINI, in botany, a fynonime of the thymus alpinus.
See Thymus.
ACINIFORMIS tunica, in anatomy. See Uvea.
ACINODENDRION, in botany, the trivial name of
a fpecies of the melaltoma. See Melastoma.
ACllSiODENDRUM, in botany, a fynonime of two
fpecies of the melaflqma.
ACINOIDES, in botany, the trivial name of a fpecies
of the ziziphora. See Ziziphora.
ACINOS, in botany, a fynonime of a fpecies of the cu-
nila. See Cunila.
ACINUS, in botany, fignifies grapes or berries growing
in clufteis.
ACISONTHERA, in botany, both a fynonime and the
trivial name of a fpecies of the rhexia. SccRhexia.
ACITLI, in ornythology, the American name of the
colymbus criftatus, a bird of the order of anferes. See
COLYMBUS.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT, in a general fenfe, is a per-
fon’s owning or confeffing a thing; but, more parti¬
cularly, is the expreffion of gratitude for a favour.
Acknowledgment-;«o«<7, a certain fum paid by te¬
nants in feveral pans of England, on the death of
their landlords, as an acknowledgment of their new
lords.
ACLIDES,_ in Roman antiquity, a kind of miffive wea¬
pon, with a thong affixed to it, whereby to draw it
back. Mod authors deferibe it as a fort of dart or
javelin ; but Scaliger makes it round ffi .or globular,
with a flender wooden flem to poife it by.
ACLOWA, in botany, a barbarous name of a fpecies of
colutea. It is ufed by the natives of Guinea to cure
the itch. See Colutea.
ACME, or Ac km e, the top or height of any thing. It
is ufually applied to the maturity of an animal jud be¬
fore it begins to decline; and phyficians have ufed it
to exprefs the utmod violence or crifis of a difeafe.
ACMELLA, in botany, the trivial name of a fpecies of
the verbefina. See Verbesina.
ACNIDA, in botany, a genus of the dicecia pentandria
elafs. There is only one fpecies of it, viz. the ae-
nida canabina. It is a native of Virginia.
ACNUA, in Roman antiquity, fignified a certain mea-
fure of land, near about the Englifh rood, or fourth
part of an acre. See Rood.
ACOBA, a fmall town of Portugal in the province of
Edremadura.
ACOEMET/E, or Acoemeti, in church hiflory, or
men who lived without fleep; a fet of monks who
chaunted the divine fervice night and day in their pla¬
ces of worffiip. They divided themfelves into three
bodies, who alternately fucceeded one another, fo that
their churches were never filent. This practice they
founded upon the precept. Pray ’without ceajing. They
flouriffiedin the ead about the middle of the fifth cen¬
tury. There are a kind of accemeti ftill fubfiding in
the
AGO (
Roman church, viz. the religious of the holy facra-
ment, who keep up a perpetual adoration, feme one
or other of them praying before the holy facrament,
day and night.
ACOL ASTRE, a fmall river of France in the Nivernois.
ACOLCHICHI, in ornythology, a barbarous name of
the phoenicopterus, a bird of the order of gralke. See
FhOENI COPTER us.
ACOLIN, an obfoiete name of a fpecies of the tetrao,
of the order of gallinae See Tetrao.
Acolin, in geography, a river of France which takes
its rife in the Bourbonnois.
ACOLUTHI, a term applied to perfons who were
firm and fteady in their opinions, and particularly to
the lloics, who were remarkably tenacious of their re-
folutions and principles.
In church-hiftory, the term acolytbus, or acolythijl,
is peculiarly applied to candidates for the miniftry who
continually attend the bifhops.
ACOLYTHIA, in the Greek church, denotes the of¬
fice or order of divine fervice; or the prayers, cere¬
monies, hymns, <bc. whereof the Greek fervice is
compofed.
ACOMA, a town of N. America, in New-Mexico,
feated on a high mountain, with a ftrong caftle. It is
the capital of the province, and was taken by the Spa¬
niards in 1599, 108. 35. W. long. 35^ o. lat.
AGOMAC, a county of Virginia, in N. America, be¬
ing a peninfula, bounded on the N. by Maryland; on
the E and S. by the ocean, and on the W. by the
bay of Chefe-peak. Cape Charles is at the entrance
of the bay, being the moft fouthern promontory of this
county.
ACONE, a fpecies of whet-ftone. See Cos.
ACONITUM, in botany, a genus of the polyandria
trigynia. There are feven fpecies of the aconitum. 1.
The lycoftonum, is a native of Lapland, Switzerland,
and other hiHy countries of Europe. 2. The unci-
natum, is a native of Philadelphia. 3. The variega-
Inm grows on the Italian and Bohemian mountains.
4. The napellus, is a native of Switzerland, Bava¬
ria, and France. 5. The Pyrenaicum, is a native of
Siberia, Tartary, and the Pyrenaean mountains. See
plate II. fig. 2. 6. The cammhrum, and, 7. The
amhora, are both natives of Taurus and the Pyre¬
naean mountains. The Englifh name of the aconitum
is ■wolfsbane or monkshood. Each fpecies is highly a-
crid, and extremely dangerous when taken into the
fiomach, as it generally occafions convulfions, and fre¬
quently a mortification in that organ.
ACONTIAS, in zoology, an obfoiete name of the an-
guis jaculus, or dart-Inake, belonging to the order of
amphibia ferpentes. See Anguis.
Acontias, is alfo a name applied by.fome writers to a
kind of comet or meteor, whofe head appears roundilh
or oblong, and its tail long and flender, like a dart or
arrow.
ACONTIUM, in ancient writers, a kind of Grecian
dart or javelin, fomewhat refembling the Roman pilum.
ACOPA, in botany, an obfoiete name of a fpecies of
the trifolium, See Trifq^eum.
Acopa, alfo fignifies medicines for refrelhing the body
after great fatigue.
ACOPAM. See Acopa.
ACOPIS, a kind of fouil, mentioned by Pliny.
ACOPUM, among ancient phyficians, a topical medicine
compofed of warm and emollient ingredients for allay¬
ing the fenfe of wearinefs.
ACORES, ingeography. See Azores.
ACORN, the fruit of the oak-tree. See Quercus.
ACORUM, in botany, afynonimeof the acorus. See
Acorus.
ACORUS,>in botany, the fweet-fmelling flag or cala¬
mus, a genus of the hexandria monogynia clafs. It
is a native of this as well as other European countries.
There are three varieties of this genus, viz. the aco¬
rus calamus; the vulgaris, or aromaticus of the Ihops ;
and the verus, which chiefiy grows in the Indies.
Acorus, in mat. med. a name fometirnes given to the
great galangal. See Galangal
Acorus, in botany, is likewife a fynonime of the iris
pfeudacorus. See Iris.
ACOUSMATICI, fometimes alfo called Acoujlici, in
Grecian antiquity, fuch difeipies of Pythagoras as had
not completed their five years probation. See Py¬
thagorean philofopby.
ACOUSTIC, in general, denotes any thing that relates
to the ear, or the fenfe of hearing.
Acoustic dud, in anatomy, the fame with meatus au-
ditorius, or the external paffage of the ear. See A-
natomy. Part VI.
Acoustic infirument, an inftrument made in the form
of a horn, perforated at tire fmall end, to aifilt bear¬
ing.
Acoustic nerve, the fame with the auditory nerve.
See Anatomy, Part V. and Auditory nerve.
ACOUSTICS, with phyficians, medicines for curing
deafnefs.
ACQS, a town at the foot of the Pyrenasan mountains
in the government of Foix in France. It takes its
name from the hot waters in thefe parts; 1. 2J. E.
long. 43.0. lat.
ACQUA, a town in the Grand Dutchy of Tufcany,
where there are warm baths, 12. 5. E. long. 43.
45. lat.
ACQUA-CHE-TAVELLA, a celebrated fountain of
Italy, in Calabria-citerior, a province of Naples. It
is near the mouth of the river Grata, and the ruins
commonly called Sibari rovinata. It has been faid to
beautify thofe who walked in it.
ACQUAPENDENTE, a pretty large town of Italy,
in the territory of the church, and patrimony of St
Peter, with a bilhop's fee. It is feated on a mountain,
near the river Pagfia, 10 miles W. of Orvieto, and
57 N. by W. of Rome, 11. 53. E. long. 42. 43..lat.
ACQUARIA, a fmall town of Italy, in Frigana, a di-
ftridt of Modena, which is remarkable for its medici¬
nal waters. It is 12 miles fouth of the city of Mo¬
dena, 11. 17. E; long. 44.24. lat.
ACQUAVIVA, a fmall town in the Terra di Bari, a
province in the kingdom of Naples, 17. 25. E. long.
4s. 10. lat.
ACQUEST,
A C K
ACQUEST, or Acquist, in law, fignifies goods got
by purchafe or donation. See CoNtiUEST.
ACQUI, a town of Italy, in the Dutchy of Montfer-
rat, with a biihop’s fee, and commodious baths. It
was taken by the Spaniards in 1745, and retaken by
the Piedmontefe in 1746; but after this, it was taken
again and difrcantled by the French, who afterwards
forfook it. It is feated on the river Bormio, 25 miles
N. W. of Genoa, and 30 S. of Cafal, 8. 30. E. long.
44. 40. lat.
ACQUIESCENCE, in commerce, is the confent that
a perfon gives to the determination given either by ar¬
bitration, orbyaconful
ACQUIETANDIS plegiis, in the Englifh law, is a
writ that lies for a furety, againd a creditor, who re-
fufes to acquit the complainant after the debt is paid.
ACQUIETANTIA de Jhiris et hundredh, in England,
fignifies the privilege of being free from fuit and fer-
vice in fliires and hundreds.
ACQUISITION, in general, denotes the obtaining or
procuring fomething. Among lawyers, it is ufed for
the right or title to an eftate got by purchafe or dona-
ACQUITARE, in ancient law-books, fignifies to dif-
cliarge or pay off the debts of a perfon deceafed.
ACQUITTAL, a difcharge, deliverance, or fetting of
a perfon free from the guilt or fufpicion of an offence.
ACQUITTANCE, a releafe or difcharge in writing
for a fum of money.
ACRA, a town of Africa, on the coaft of Guinea, where
the Englifh, Dutch, and Danes, have ftrong forts,
and each fort its particular village, o. 2. W. long.
5. o. lat.
ACRASIA, among phyficians, fignifies the predominan¬
cy of one quality over another.
ACRE, or Acra, a fea-port town in Syria. It was
formerly called Ptolemais, and is a bifhop’s fee. It
was very famous in the time of the crufadoes, and un¬
derwent feveral fieges both by the ChrifHans and Sara¬
cens. It is now an inconfiderable town, being entire¬
ly fupported by its harbour, which, is frequented by
(hips of feveral nations. It is 20 miles S. of Tyre,
and 37 N. of Jerufalem, 39. 25. E. long. 32.
40. lat.
Acre, in the Mogul’s dominions, the fame with lack,
and fignifies the fum of 100,000 rupees ; the rupee is
-of the value of the French crown of 3 livres, or 30
fols of Holland; an 100 lacks of rupees make a cou-
ron in Indoftan, or 10,000,000 rupees; the pound
Sterling is about 8 rupees; according to which pro¬
portion, a lack of rupees amounts to 12,500 pounds
Sterling.
Acre, a meafure of land ufed in feveral provinces of
France, particularly in Normandy. It is larger or
lefs according to the different places ; but commonly
contains 160 perches.
The Acre of woods in France, confifts of four roods,
called verg es; the rood is 40 perches, the perch 24
feet, the foot 12 inches, the inch 12 lines.
Acre, the univerfal meafure of land in Britain. An
acre in England contains 4 fquare roods, a rood 40
A C R
perches or poles of i6£ feet each byftatute. Yet this
meafure does not prevail in all parts of England, as
the length of the pole varies in different counties, and
is called cujiosnary meafure, the difference running
from the 16- feet to 28. The acre is alfo divided in¬
to xo fquare chains, of 22 yards each, that is 4840
fquare yards. An acre in Scotland contains 4 fquare
roods ; 1 fquare rood is 40 fquare falls; 1 fquare fall,
36 fquare ells; 1 fquare ell, 9 fquare feet, and 73
fquare inches; 1 fquare foot, 144 fquare inches.
The Scots acre is alfo divided into 10 fquare chains ;
the meafuring chr.in Ihould be 24 ells in length, divi¬
ded into 100 links, each link 8r’c?I inches; and fo
I fquare chain will contain 10,000 fquare links.
The Englilh (latute acre is about 3 roods and 6 falls
ftandard meafure of Scotland.
ACREME, in old law-books, fignifies ten acres of land.
ACRIBEIA, fignifies great accuracy.
ACRID, a name for any thing that is of a (harp or
pungent tafte.
ACRIDOPHAGI, fignifies locujl-eaters. It has been
much difputed whether the inhabitants of Arabia, E-
thiopia, <bc ever eat locufts. We Ihall give the fub-
ftance of what Haffelquill fays on this fubjedt, who
travelled in Syria and Egypt fo late as the year 1752.
This ingenious gentleman, who travelled with a view
to improve natural hiftory, informs us, that he afked
Franks, and many other people who had lived long in
thefe countries, whether they had ever heard that the
inhabitants of Arabia and Ethiopia, &c. ufed locufts
as food. They anfwered that they had. He like-
wife alked the fame queftion of Armenians, Cophtes,
and Syrians, who lived in Arabia, and had travelled
in Syria and near the Red-fea; fome of whom faid
they heard of fuch a pradtice, and others that they,
had often feen the people eat thefe infedts. He at
laft obtained complete fatisfadtion on this head from a
learned Iheck at Cairo, who had lived fix years in
Mecca. This gentleman told him, in prefence of M.
le Grand, the principal French interpreter at Cairo,
and others, that a famine frequently rages at Mecca
when there is a fcarcity of corn in Egypt, which obli¬
ges the inhabitants to live upon coarfer food than or¬
dinary : That when corn is fcarce, the Arabians grind
the loculls in hand-mills, or Hone mortars, and bake
them into cakes, and ufe thefe cakes in place of
bread: That he has frequently feen locufts ufed by
the Arabians, even when there was no fcarcity of
corn; but then they boil them, itew them with but¬
ter, and make them into a kind of fricaffee, which he
fays is not difagreeably tailed; for he had fometimes
tailed thefe locuft-fricaffees out of curiofity. From
this account, we may fee the folly of that difpute a-
mong divines about the nature of St John’s food in
the wildernefs. Some of them fay that loculls were
the fruits of certain trees, others that they were a
kind of birds, <bc.; but thofe who adhered to the li¬
teral meaning of the text were at leall the moll ortho¬
dox, although their arguments were perhaps not fo
Ilrong as they might have been, had they had an op¬
portunity of quoting fuch an author as Haffelquilt. .
ACRI-
( 20 )
A C R (2
ACRIFOLIUM, in botany, a fliarp or prickly leaf.
ACRIMONY, that quality in bodies which renders
them acrid to the tafte.
ACRIVIOLA, in botany, a fynonime of a fpecies of
tropasolum or Indian crefs. See Trop^olum.
ACROAMATIC, or Acroatic, in general, denotes
a thing fnblime, profound, or abftrufe. Ariftotle’s
leisures to his favourite difciples and intimate friends
bore this denomination, in cppofition to his exoteric
leftures, or thofe accommodated to a popular audi-
ACROBATICA, or Acrobaticum, in Grecian anti¬
quity, an engine whereby the people were raifed aloft,
that they might fee further, or with greater advan¬
tage. It was much the fame with the fcanforium of
the Latins.
ACROCHIRISMUS, in Grecian antiquity, a kind of
gymnaftic exercife, performed with the lilts, without
doling at all.
ACROCHORDON, a painful wart, which is very pro¬
minent and pendulous.
ACROCORION, in botany, an bbfolete name of the
crocus. See Crocus.
ACROMATIC, or Achromatic, in optics, a term
applied to a particular kind of telefcope, the molt per-
fedof the refrading kind. See Optics and Tele¬
scope.
ACROMION, in anatomy, the upper part of the fca-
pula. See Anatomy, Part I.
ACROMONOGRAMMATICUM, in poetry, a kind
of poem, wherein every fubfequent verfe begins with
the letter wherewith the immediately preceding one
terminated.
ACRON, a territory on the gold coal! of Guinea in A-
frica, bordering on the Fantynean country. The
Dutch have a fort here, called Fort Patience. The
inhabitants apply themfelves principally to hulbandry.
They are a very ignorant people, and go naked like
the reft of the negroes.
ACRON, among ancient botanifts, fignifies the top or
flower of plants of the thiftle kind.
ACRONICAL, Achronycal, or Achronical, in
aftronomy, is a term applied to the rifing of a ftar,
when the fun is fet in the evening; but has been pro-
mifcuoully ufed to exprefs a ftar’s riling at funfet, or
fetting at funrife.
ACROSPIRE, a vulgar term for what the botanifts call
the plume. See Agriculture, Of vegetation.
ACROSPIRED, in malt-making, is the grain’s Ihoot-
ing both at the root and blade end. See Malt.
ACROSTIC, Acrosticum, in poetry, a poem dif-
pofed in fuch a manner, that the initial letters of the
verfes make fome perlon’s name, title, motto, foe.
ACROS PICUM, in botany, a genus of the cryptoga-
mia Alices, of which there are fpecies, but only
three of them are natives of Britain, viz. the fepten-
tnonale, or horned fern; the ilvenfe, or hairy fern 5
and the thelypteris, or marlh fern.
ACROSTOLIUM, in ancient naval architedlure, the
extreme part of the ornament ufed on the prows, of
their flips, which was fcmethr.es in the fhape of a
VOL.I. No. J. 2
I ) ACT
buckler, helmet, animal, foe.; but more frequently
circular, or I pi ml. It was ufual to tear them from
the prows of vanquifhed veflels, and fix them to the
conquerors, as a fignal of vidtory.
ACROTELEUTIC, among eccleliaftic writers, an ap¬
pellation given to any thing added to the end of a pfalm,
as the Gloria Patri or doxology.
ACROTERI, a town in the iliand of Santorin, that
lies in the fea of Candia, at. 26. E. lorm so
25. lat. ’ i
ACROTERIA, in architedlure, fmall pedeftals, ufually
without bafes, anciently placed at the middle and the
two extremes of pediments or frontifpieces, ferving to
fupport the ftatues, foe. It alfo fignifies the figures
placed as ornaments on the tops of churches, and the
Iharp pinnacles that ftand in ranges about flat build¬
ings with rails and ballufters.
Among ancient phyficians, it fignified the larger ex¬
tremities of the body, as the head, hands, and feet.
It has alfo been ufed for the tips of the fingers, and
fometimes for the eminences or procefles of bones.
ACRITHYMIA, in furgery, a large tumour refem-
bling a wart, though fometimes flat and depreffed.
See Surgery, title, Of tumours.
ACSOR, a town in the river Nile in Egypt, famed for
its earthen ware.
ACSU, a tov/n in Afiatic Tartary, fituated in 40. so
N. lat. .
ACT, In general, denotes the exertion of power; and
differs from power, as the effedt from the caufe.
Act, among lawyers, is an inftrument in writing for
declaring or juftifying the truth of any thing. In
which fenfe, records, decrees, fentences, reports, cer¬
tificates, foe. are called Atts.
Acts, alio denote the deliberations and refolutions of
an affembly, fenate, or convocation, as, Adts of par¬
liament, foe.
Act of faitb, auta da fe, in the Romifti church, is a
fort of jail delivery, for the puniftiment of heretics,
and the abfolution of thofe who are found to be inno¬
cent. The culprits are firft led to church, where
their fentence, either of condemnation or abfolution,
is pronounced, and the guilty are delivered over to the
fecular power, with an earneft interceflion for them,
that no blood may be flied. But if they perfift in
their fuppofed errors, they are burnt alive. See In¬
quisition.
Acts, in dramatic poetry, are the parts or divifions in¬
to which tragedies and comedies are generally fplit.
Dramatic compofitions ufually confift of five adts. But
this divifion is not efl'entially neceffary, but may be
varied according to the humour of the author, or the
nature of the fubjedt. See Drama.
Act of g, ace. See Grace.
ACTfEA, in botany, a genus of the polyandria mono-
gynia clafs. There are three fpecies of this plant,
viz. the adtsea Ipicata, or bone-berries, which is a
native of Britain; the racemofa, which is a native of
America; and the cimicifuga, which is a native of Si¬
beria.
ACTIAN games, in Roman antiquity, were folemn
f F games
ACT ( 12
games infHtuted by Auguftus, in memory of bis vic¬
tory over Marc Anthony at Ab'dum, held every fifth
year, and celebrated in honour of Apollo, fince called
Afl'nu. Hence A&ian years, an aera commencing
from the battle of A&ium, called the Mra of Au~
, gufins;
ACTION, in a general fenfe. See Act.
Action, in mechanics, the motion produced by the im-
pulfe of one body upon another. See Mrchanics.
Action, in ethics, denotes the external figns or expref-
fions of the fentiments of a moral agent. See Eth ics.
Metaphysics.
Action, in poetry, the fame with the fnbjeA or fable.
Critics generally diftinguifh two kinds, the principal
and the incidental. The principal adtion is what is
generally called the fab'e; and the incidental an epi-
fode. See Drama.
Action, in oratory, is the outward deportment of the
orator, or the acccmmodation of his countenance,
voice, and geffure, to the fubjedt of which he is treat¬
ing,. See Eloquence.
Action, in a theatrical fenfe, is much the fame with
adtion in oratory; the one adapts his adtion to an af-
fumed charadter, the other is fuppofed to feel in rea¬
lity what he exprefles.
Action, in painting and fculpture, is the pofture of a
ftatue or pidture, ierving to exprefs fome paiTion, &c.
Action, among phyficians. See Motions.
Action, in commerce, is a term ufed abroad for a
part or fhare in a company’s flock or capital.
Action, in Scots law, is a demand made before a
judge for obtaining what we are legally intitled to de¬
mand, and is more commonly known by the name of
law-fuit or procefs. See Law, title, A ft ions.
ACTIONARY, or Actionist, a proprietor of flock
in a trading company.
ACTIONS, among merchants, fometimes fignify move-
able efFedts; and we fay the merchant’s creditors have
feized on all his adtions, when we mean that they have
taken poffeflion of all his adtive debts.
ACTIVE, denotes fomething that communicates adtion
or motion to another; in which acceptation it flands
oppofed to paffive.
Active, in grammar, is applied to fuch words as ex¬
prefs adtion; and is therefore oppofed to paflive. The
adtive performs the adtion, as the paflive receives it.
Active principles, in chemiflry, fuch as are fuppofed
to adt without any afliflance from others ; as mercury,
fulphur, fcc. See Chemistry.
ACTIVITY, in general, denotes the power of adting,
or the adtive faculty. See Active.
Sphere of Activity, the whole fpace in which the vir¬
tue, pov/er, or influence of any objedt is exerted.
ACTIUS, in mythology, a firname of Apollo, from
Adtium, where he was worfhipped.
ACTOR, in genera], fignities a perfon who adts or per¬
forms fomething.
Actor, in the drama, is a perfon who reprefents fome
part or charadter upon the theatre. The drama in
its original only confifted of a Ample chorus, who
) A C U
fung hymns in honour of Bacchus ; fo that the primi¬
tive adtors were only fingers and muficians. Thefpis
was the fill! who introduced a perjona, or cftor, to
eafe the chorus, by reciting the adventures of fome
of their heroes. yEfchylus introduced a fecond, and
changed the ancient recitals into dialogues. ' Sopho¬
cles added a third, in order to reprefent the variety of
incidents in a more natural manner. And here the
G reeks (lopped; at lead we do not find, in any of
their tragedies,’above three perfons in the fame fcene,
though, in their comedies, they took a greater liber¬
ty. The ancient adlors were mafked, which muft
have been a gre^t difadvantage to their adtion, as they
were thereby deprived of ail the variety of expreflion
the countenance is capable of. Adlors were as much
honoured at Athens, as they were defpifed at Rome.
The French have, in this particular, adopted the
manner of the Romans, and the Englifh that of the
Athenians. See Drama.
ACTORUM tabula, in antiquity, were tables inilkuted
by Servius Tullius, in v/hich the births of children
were regiftered. They were kept in the treafury of
Satumus.
ACTRESS, a woman v/ho performs a part upon the
Itage. Women adtors wei»e unknown to the ancients.
ACTUAL, fomething that is real and effedtivc, or that
exifts truly and abfoluteiy.
ACTUARIAL naves, a kind of (hips among the Ro¬
mans, chiefly defigned for fwift failing
ACTUARIUS, or Actarius, a notary or officer ap¬
pointed to write the adts or proceedings of a court, or
the like. In the Eaftern empire, the adtuarii were
properly officers who kept the military accounts, re¬
ceived the corn from the fufcep tores, or (lore-keepers,
and delivered it to the foldiers.
ACTUATE, to bring into adt, to put a thing in motion,
or to (lir up a perfon to adlion.
ACTUS, in ancient architedture, a meafure in length e-
qual to 120 Roman feet. In ancient agriculture, the
word fignified the length of one furrow, or the difiance
a plough goes before it-turns.
Actus minimus, was a quantity of land 120 feet in
length, and four in breadth.
Actus major, or Actus quadratus, a piece of ground
in the fquare form, whofe fide was equal to 120 feet,
equal to half the jugerum.
Actus intervicenalis, a fpace of ground four feet in
breadth, left between the lands as a path or way.
ACUANITES, or Acuanitje, a branch of thofe an¬
cient heretics who bore the general name of Manichees.
This branch took their diftinguifliing title from Acua,
a difeiple of Thomas.
ACUBENE, in afironomy, the Arabic name of a ftar
of the fourth magnitude, in the fouthern forceps of
Cancer; by Bayer marked A. See Astronomy
and Cancer.
ACUHYTLI, a barbarous name of afpecies of ferpent.
ACUITION. See Acutition.
ACULEATE, or Aculeati, a term applied to any
plant or animal armed with prickles.
ACU-
ADA (23
ACULEATUS, in ichthyology, a fynonime of the ga-
fterofteus or ftickie-back. See Gasterosteus.
ACULEI, the prickles of animals or of plants.
ACULEOSA, in botany, a fynonime of the gorteria
ciliaris and the roella ciliata. See Gorteria, Ro-
ella.
ACULER, in the menage, is ufed for the motion of a
horfe, when, in working upon volts, he does not go
far enough forward at every time or motion, fo that
his (houlders embrace or take in too little ground, and
his croupe comes too near the centre of the volt.
Horfes are naturally, inclined to this fault in making
demi-volts
ACUMEN, in the ancient mufic, a found produced by
the intention or raifing of the voice.
ACUMINA, iq antiquity, a kind of military omen, mofl:
generally fuppofed to have been taken from the points
or edges of darts, fwords, or other weapons.
ACUMULO, a fmall town in Abruzzo Ulterior, a
province of the kingdpm of Naples, 17. 15. long. 39.
30. lat.
ACUPUNCTURE, the name of a forgical operation
among the Chinefe and Japanefe, which is performed
by pricking the part affedted with a filver needle.
They employ this operation in head-achs, lethargies,
convulfions, colics, <&c.
ACUS, in ichthyology, the trivial name of a fpecies of
fyngnathus. See Syngnathus.
ACUTE, as applied to angles, triangles, cones, 6c.
See thefe articles.
Acute accent, in grammar. See Accent.
Acute, in mufic, fignifies a tone that is foarp, fonill,
or high, in refpect of fome other, and is oppofed to
grave.
Acute difcafes, fuch as come fuddenly to a crifis.
This term is ufed for all difeafes which do not fall
under the head of chronic difeafes.
ACUTITION, among phyficians, the lharpening or in-
creafing the force of any medicine.
ACYROLOGIA, fignifies an improper word, phrafe,
or expreflion.
AD, a Latin prepofition, originally fignifying to, and
frequently ufed in compofition both with and without
the d, to exprefs the relation of one thing to another.
Ad bejlias, in antiquity, is the punifnment of criminals
condemned to be thrown to wild beads.
Ad hominem, in logic, a kind of argumen* drawn from
the principles or prejudices of thefe with whom we
argue.
Ad ludos, in antiquity, a fentence upon criminals among
the Romans, whereby they were condemned to enter¬
tain the people either by fighting with wild beads, or
with one another, and thus executing judice upon
themfelves.
Ad metalla, in antiquity, the punilhment of fuch cri¬
minals as were condemned to the mines, among the
Romans ; and therefore called Metallici.
Av> quiddities, amongfchoolmen. See Quiddities.
Ad valorem, a term chiefly ufed in fpeaking of the du¬
ties or cudonss paid for certain goods : The duties on
) ADA
fome articles are paid by the number, weight, mea-
fure, tale, 6c. and others are paid ad valorem, that
is, according to their value.
ADA, a large town of Afia, inhabited chiefly by Arme¬
nians.
ADACA-MANGEN, in botany, a fynonime of the
fphseranthus. See Sphjeranthus.
ADAGE, a proverb, or fiiort fentence, containing fome
wife obfervation or popular faying.
ADAGIO, in mufic, an Italian adverb, fignifying
leifurely ; and is ufed to denote the flowed of all times,
except the grave.
ADAJA, a river in Spain which falls into the Duro.
ADALIDES, in the Spainifli policy, aie officers of ju-
flice for matters touching the military forces, efpeci-
ally on expeditions.
ADAMANT, a name fometimes given to the diamond.
See Diamond. It is like wife applied to the fcoriae
of gold, the magnet, 6c.
ADAMANTIC, in church hidory, a name given to the
followers of Origen, firnamed Adamantius.
ADAMEOE, in botany, a fynonime of the ipomoea cam-
panulata, an Indian plant, belonging to the pentandria
monogynia clafs. See Ipomoea.
ADAMI pomum, or Adam's apple, in botany, an obfo-
lete name of a fpecies of the citrus or orange. See
Citrus.
Adami potnum, in anatomy, the convex part of the fird
cartilage of the larynx. See Anatomy, Part VI.
ADAMIC earth, a name given to common red clay,
alluding to that fpecies of earth of which the fird man
is fuppofed to have been made.
ADAMITES, in church hidory, a name fometimes u-
fed for the defeendents of Adam by Seth, who are
more ufuaily called Sethites. But the name Adamites
is more particularly ufed, by ecclefiadical writers, for
a fed of ancient heretics, who took upon them to imi¬
tate the nakednefs of Adam, and pretended to be re¬
inflated in his original innocence.
ADAMSHIDE, a diArid of the circle of Radenburg,
belonging to the King of Pruffia, which, with Dom-
brolken, was bought, in 1737, for 42,000 dollars.
ADAM’r peak, a high mountain of the E. Indies, in
the ifland of Ceylon, on the top of which they be¬
lieve the fird man was created ; and there is the fliape
of a man’s foot, cut out of the rock, about five or fix
feet in length, which they pretend is the print of his
foot, 80. 50. E. long. .5 55. lat.
ADANA, an ancient town of Natolia, with a biffiop’s
fee. It dands on the river Choquen, 25 miles N. E.
of Tarfus, 36. 25. long. 38. 10. lat..
ADANSONIA, in botany, a genus of the monadelphia
polyandria clafs. It is a native of Senegal and E-
gypt-
ADAOUS, or Adows, a people of Guinea in Africa.
ADAPTERS, in chemifiry, machines for fitting a reci¬
pient to the capital. See Chemistry.
ADAR, the name of a Hebrew month, anfwering to the
end of February and beginning of March, the 12th of
their facred, and 6th of their civil year. On tht
7th
ADD (
7th day of ir, the jews keep a faft for the death of
Mofes; on the 13th, they have the faft of Efther;
and on the 14th, they celebrate the feaft of Purim,
for their deliverance from Haraan’s confpiracy,
ADARCE, a kind of concreted fans found on reeds and
other vegetables, and applied by the ancients as a re¬
medy in feveral cutaneous difeafes.
AD ARGON, in Jewilh antiquity, a gold coin mention¬
ed in fcripture, about the value of which authors are
not agreed.
ADARE, a fmall town of Ireland, in the county of
Limmerick.
ADARME, in commere, a fmall weight in Spain, which
is alfo ufed at Buenos-Aires, and in all Spanilh Ame¬
rica, It is the 16th part of an ounce, which at Paris
is called the demi-gros. But the Spanilh ounce is fe-
ven per cent, lighter than that of Paris. Stephens
renders it in Englilh by a dram.
AD A RTIC ELATION, in anatomy, the fame with
diarthrolis. See Diarthrosis.
ADATAIS, Adatis, or Adatys, in commerce, a
muflin or cotton-cloth, very fine and clear, of which
the piece is ten French ells long, and three quarters
broad. It comes from the E. Indies ; and the fineft
is made at Bengal. See Muslin.
ADCHER, in the materia medica, a name given by
fome to the fchcenanth. See ScoenantH.
ADCORDABILES denarii, in ancient law-books, is
money paid by the vaflal to his lord, in the nature of
a fine, upon felling ®r exchanging a feud.
ADCRESCENTES, among the Romans, denoted a
kind of loldiery, entered in the army, but not yet put
On duty; from thefe the ftanding forces were recruited.
See Accensi.
ADDA, in geography, a river of Switzerland and Italy,
which rifes in mount Braulio, in the country of the
Grifons, and palling through the Valteiine, travetfes
the lake Como and the Milanefe, and falls into the
Po, near Cremona.
ADD AGE, in natural hiftory, a name the Africans give
to the common antelope. See Gazella.
ADDEPHAGIA, in medicine, a term ufed by fome
phyficians, for gluttony, or a Voracious appetite.
ADDER, in zoology, a vulgar name for the Viper;
which fee.
ADDERS-TONGUE, in botany, the Englilh name
of the ophioglolTum. See Ophioglossum.
ADDER-WORT, in botany, the Engl'ilh name of the
polygonum biftata. See Polygonum.
ADDEXTRATORES,in the court of Rome, the pope’s
mitre-bearers, fo called according to Ducange, be-
caufe they walk at the pope’s right-hand, when he
rides to vifit the churches.
ADDICE, or Adze, a kind of crooked ax ufed by
Ihip-wrights, Carpenters, coopers, &c.
ADDICTI, in antiquity, a kind of Haves, among the
Romans, adjudged to ferve fome creditor whoift they
could not otherwife fatisfy, and whofe (laves they be¬
came till they could pay, or work out the debt.
ADDICTION, among the Romans, was the making
over goods to another, either by fale, or by legal fen-
24 ) A D E
tence ; the goods fo delivered v/ere called bona addic-
ta. Debtors were fometimes delivered over in the
fame manner; and thence called fervi addicii.
ADDICTIO in diem, among the Romans, the adjud¬
ging a thing to a-perfan for a certain price, unlefs by
fuch a day the owneV, or fome other, give more
for it.
ADD1TAMENT, a term fometimes ufed by chemifts
and phyficians for the addition of any new ingredient
to increafe the ftrength of a menftruum or compoli-
tion.
ADDITION, is the joining together or uniting two or
more things, or augmenting a thing by the accellion
of others thereto.
Addition, in Arithmetic, Algebra, Loga¬
rithms, 6v. fee thefe articles.
Addition of ratios, a term fometimes ufed for com-
pojition of ratios.
Addition, in mufic, a dot marked on the right fide of
a note, fignifying that it is to be founded or length¬
ened half as much more as it would have been With¬
out fuch mark.
Addition, in law, is that title or defignation which is
given to a man, over and above his proper name and
firname, to Ihew of what eftate, degree, occupation,
or place he is.
Additions, in heraldry, fome things added to a coat
of arms, as marks of honour; and therefore diredtly
oppofite to-abatements. Among additions we reckon
Bo rdure, Quarter, Canton,Gyron* Pile, foe.
See thefe articles.
Addition, in diftillery, a general name given to fuch
things as are added to the walh or liquor while ferment¬
ing, to increafe the vinofity and quantity of the fpirit,
or give it a particular relifii,
ADDITIVE, in general, fomething to be added. Thus,
mathematicians fpeak of additive ratios, aftronomers
of additive equations, &c.
ADDOU, one of the Maldivian iflands.
ADDRESS, a term often ufed to exprefs the drill and
propriety with which an affair is conduced or mana¬
ged.
An Address, in a particular acceptation, is a congra¬
tulation, petition, or remonftrance, prefented to a fu-
perior, efpecially to the king.
ADDUCENT mufcles, or Adductors. See Ad¬
ductor.
ADDUCTION, in anatomy, the motion or adtion of
the adducent mufcles.
ADDUCTOR, in anatomy, the names of all mufcleis
which pull one part of the body towards another. See
Anatomy, Part II.
ADEA, in geography, a province of Annian, on the eaft-
ern coaft of Africa, called alfo Adel.
ADEB, a large and uncertain Egyptian weight, ufed
chiefly for rice.
ADEL, or Adea, in geography, a kingdom of Africa,
called alfo Zeila, from its capital town. It lies oh
the S. coaft of the ftrait of Babelmandel. There is
fddom any rain here, and yet the country i ; fruitful,
it being well watered with rivers. It abtu.ids with
wheat,
A D E ( 25 ) ADI
wheat, millet, frankincenfe, and pepper. Their reli¬
gion is the Mahometan.
Adel-7?/^, an obfolete name of the falmo albula, be¬
longing to the order of abdominales. See Sal mo.
ADEL-ODAGAM, in botany, a fynonime of the jufti-
ciabivalvis. See Justicia.
ADELIA, in botany, a genus of the dioecia monadel-
phia clafs. Of this genus there are three fpecies ; the
bernardia, a native of America ; and the ricinella
and acidoton, both natives of Jamaica.
ADELPHIANI, in church hiftory, a fed of ancient
heretics, lo called from their leader Adeiphius. They
keep the fabbath as a faft.
ADELSCALC, in antiquity, a fervant of the king; from
the German, adel, noble, and fcalc, a fervant. They
feem to have been the fame with royal thanes among
the Saxons, and the minijlri regis in ancient char¬
ters.
ADELSPERG, a fmall town of Germany, in lower
Carniola.
ADEMPTION, in law, is the revocation of a donation,
or grant, either diredtly by a deed or writ, or indi¬
rectly by otherwife difpofing of the fubjeft of it. See
Rescission.
ADEN, formerly a rich and confiderable town of Ara¬
bia the Happy. It is feated by the fea-fide, a lit¬
tle eaftward of the Itraits of Bebelmandel.
ADENANTHERA, in botany, a genus of the decan-
dria monogynia clafs. There are only two fpecies of
this plant, the pavonina, and the faleataria, both na¬
tives of India.
ADENBURG, or Aidenburg, in geography, a town
of Weftphalia, and in the dutchy of Burg, fubjedl to
the Elector Palatine. It is 12 miles N. E. of Cologne,
and 17 W. of Bonn, 7. 25- E. long. 51. 2. lat.
ADENDUM, a fmall town of Africa, in the kingdom
of Fez.
ADENOGRAPHY, that part of anatomy which treats
of the glandular parts.
ADENOIDES, in anatomy. See Prostates.
ADENOLOGY. See Adenography.
ADENOS, a kind of cotton otherwife called marine
cotton. It comes from Aleppo by the way of Marfeilles,
where it pays 20 per cent, duty, according to the tariff
of the year 1766. Its valuation, according to the fame
tariff, is 76 livres 16 fols.
ADENOSE ahfcefs, a term fometimes ufed for a hard
tumour refembling a gland.
ADEONA, in mythology, the name of a goddefs invoked
by the Romans when they fet out upon a journey.
ADEPHAGIA, in mythology, the goddefs of glutto¬
ny, to whom the Sicilians paid religious worfhip.
ADEPS, in anatomy, the fat found in the abdomen.
It alfo fignifies animal-fat of any kind.
ADEPTS, a term among alchemifts for thofe who pre¬
tended to have found out the panacea or philofophers-
ftone.
ADEQUATE, fomething equal to or exactly corre-
fponding with another.
Adequate idea, fignifies a diftinft or perfeCt concep¬
tion of all the Qualities of any objeCt.
Vol. I. No. 2.
ADERBERG, a town of Pomerania, fituate on the O-
d«.
ADERBIGAN, a province of Perfia, bounded on the
N. by Armenia Proper, on the S. by Irac-Agemi, on
the E. by Ghilan, and on the W. by Curdiftan. The
principal town is Tauris, from 42. to. 48. long, from
36. to 39. lat.
ADERNO, a fmall place in the Val di Demona in the
kingdom of Sicily, 15. 25. E. long. 28. 5. lat.
ADESSENARIANS, Adessenarii, in church-hiflo-
ry, a feCt of Chriflians, who hold the real prefence
of Chrifl’s body in the eucharift, though not by way
of tranfubftantiation. They differ confiderably as to
this prefence, fome holding that the body of Chrift is
in the bread; others, that it is about the bread; and
others, that it is under the bread.
ADFECTED equation. See Algebra.
ADFILIATION, a Gothic cuftom, whereby the chil¬
dren of a former marriage are put upon the fame
footing with thofe of the fecond. This is alfo cal¬
led unto prolium, and ftill retained in Ibme parts of
Germany.
ADHATODA, in botany, a fynonime of a fpecies of
ruelia, acanthus, and of two fpecies of jufticia.
AHion of ADHERENCE, in Scots law, an adtion com¬
petent to ahuiband or wife, to compel either party to
adhere, in cafe of defertion. See Law, title, Mar¬
riage.
ADHERGAT, a town of Syria, near the frontiers of
Arabia.
ADHESFON, implies the flicking or adhering of two
bodies together.
Adhesion, in logic, fignifies tenacioufnefs to an argu¬
ment, without regard to any evidence of its truth.
Adhesion, in anatomy, a term for one part flicking to
another, which in a natural ftate are feparate.
ADHOA, in ancient cuftoms. See Relief.
ADJA, or Adga, a town of Guinea on the coaft of
Fantin.
ADJACENT, an appellation given to fuch things as are
fituate near, or adjoining to each other.
ADIANTHUM, in botany, a genus of the cryptoga-
mia Alices, of which there are 19 fpecies, and only
two of them natives of Britain, viz. the adianthum
capillus veneris, or true maiden-hair, and the trapezi-
forme, or (hining maiden-hair.
ADIAPHORISTS, Adiaphorist^:, or Adiapho-
rites, in church-hiftory, a name importing luke-
warmnefs, given, in the fixteenth century, to the mode¬
rate Lutherans, who embraced the opinions of Me-
landlhon, whofe difpofition was vaftly more pacific than
that of Luther.
ADJA&ZO, in geography, a handfome town and caftle
of Corfica in the Mediterranean, with a bifliop’s fee,
and a good harbour. It is populous, and fertile in
wine. Some call it Agaccio. It is 27 miles S. W.
of Corte, 8. J3. E. long. 41. 54. lat.
ADJECTIVE, in grammar, when joined to a fubftart-
tive, imports fome quality, or accident, or circum-
flance belonging to that fubftantive.
ADIGE, in geography, a river in Italy, which taking
f G its
3
ADM (2
its rife S*of the lake Glace, among the Alps, runs S.
by Trent, then E. by Verona in the territory pf Ve¬
nice, and falls into the gulph of Venice, N. of the
mouth of the Po.
ADJOURNMENT; the word imports putting,.off
fomething to another day or time*
ADIPOSE, a term ufed by anatomies for any cell,
membrane, &c.' that is remarkable for its fatnefs.
ADVIRBEITSAN, in geography, a province of Pcr-
fia, in Afra, and part of the ancient Media. It is
bounded on the N. by the province of Shirvan, on
the S. by Irac-Agemi and Curdillan, on the E. by Gi-
lan and the Cafpian fea, and on the W. by Turco-
mania.
ADIT, in general, fignifies the paffage to, or entrance
of any thing, as the adit of a mine, etc.
ADJUDICATION, in Scots law, the name of that
■ action by which a creditor attaches the heritable eftate
of his debtor, or his debtor’s heir, in order to appropri¬
ate it to himfelf, either in payment or fecurity of his
debt; orj that action by which the holder of an heri¬
table' right, labouring under any defe<ft in point of
form, mayfupply that defect. See Law, title, Com-
pfifttigs. and adjudications.
ADJUNCT,, fomething added or joined to another. In
rhetoric and grammar, they fignify certain words or
things added to others, to amplify or augment the
force of the difeourfe.
ADJUTANT, in the military art, is an officer whofe
bufinefs it is to affift the major. Each battalion of
foot and regiment of horfe has an adjutant, who re¬
ceives the orders every night from the brigade-major;
which, after carrying them to the- colonel, he delivers
out to the ferjeants... When detachments are to . be
made, he gives the number to be furniffied by each
company or troop, and ailigns the hour and place of ren¬
dezvous. He alfo places, the guards, receives and di-
Rributes the ammunition to the companies, <kc. and
by the major’s orders, regulates the prices of bread,
beer, and other pravifions.—The word is fometimes
ufed hy the french.for anaid-du-caivp.
AnJur Axts-generaL, among the Jefuits, a felect num¬
ber of fathers, refiding with the general of the order,
each of wliom has a province or country affigned him,
as England, Holland, and their bufinefs is to in¬
form the father-general of ftate-occurrences. in. fuch,
countries.
ADJUTORIUM, a term ufed hy phyfeians. for any
medicine in.a; prefeription but the capital one.
A&Juto rium, in anatomy, the fame with the humerus
or fhoulder-blade. See Humsros.,
ADLE-EGGS, fuch as have not-received an impregna¬
tion- from the femen of the cock.
ADLOCUTION, in.Roman antiquity, is chiefly HRcler-
llood of fpeeches made by Roman generals, to their
armies, to animate them.with courage, before a battle,
ADMINICLES, in Scots law,r fignifies any writing or
deed- referred to by a party in an aftlcn of law, for
pr : Ns alk.lgeances or a/Tertions.
Adm o ; s, among antiquarians, the ornaments where¬
with. Juno is reprefented on medals.
5 ) ADM
ADMINICULATOR, an ancient officer of the church,
whofe bufinefs it was to attend to, and defend the
caufe of widows, orphans, and others deftitute of help.
ADMINISTRATION, in general, the government,
dire&ion, or management of affairs, and particular¬
ly the exercife of dillributive juflice; among eccle-
fiallics it is often ufed to exprefs the giving or difpen-
fing the facraments, <bc.
Administration, is alfo the name given by the Spa¬
niards in Peru, to the llaple magazine, or warehouie,
eftabliffied at Callao, a fmall town on the S. Sea, which
is the port of Lima, the capital of that part of S. A-
merica, and particularly of Pent. The foreign ffiips,
which have leave to trade along that coaft, are obliged
to unload here, paying 13 per cent, of the price they
fell for, if the cargo be entire, and even 16 per cefii.
if otherwife ; befides which they, pay, 3 per 1000,
duty for confuiffiip, and fome other final! royal rights
- and claims.
Administration, a term ufed by anatomifts for the
art of difleeting with propriety.
ADMINISTRATOR., in Scots law, a perfon legally
impowered to a£t for another whom the law prefumes
incapable of acting for himfelf. Thus tutors or cura¬
tors are fometimes flyled adminijlrators in lain to pu¬
pils, minors, or fatuous perfons. But more generally
the term is ufed to imply that power which is confer¬
red by the law upon a father over the perfons and e-
flates of his children during their minority. See Law,
title, Minors, and their tutors and curators.
Administrator, is fometimes ufed for the prefident
of a province 5 for a perfon appointed to receive, ma¬
nage, and diflribute the revenues of an hofpital or re¬
ligious houfe ; for a prince who-enjoys the revenues
of a fecularized biffioprick; and for the regent of a
kingdom, during a minority of the prince, or a va¬
cancy of the throne.
ADMINISTRATRIX, a woman who adls as admini-
flrator.
ADMIRABIIJS,. in botany, a fynonime of the mirabi-
lis. See Mirabilis.
ADMIR ABILIS Jal, the fame with Glauber’s fait. See
Glauber’s salt .
ADMIRAL, in maritime affairs, a great officer who
commands the naval forces of a kingdom or Rate.
High Admiral, in the law. of Scotland, a judge in-
- veiled with fupreme jnrifdittion in all maritime caufes
within Scotland. See Law, title,; Supreme judges,
and courts of Scotland.
Ad m i ral alfo denotes the commander in chief of a fingle
fleet or fquadron; or, in general, any flag-officer what>
ever. In the Britilh navy, befides the admiral who
commands in chief, there are the vice-admiral, who
commands the fecond fquadron ; and the rear-admiral,
who commands, the third. The admiral carries his
flag at the main-top-maft-head; the vice-admiral at
the fore-top-maft-head; and the rear-admiral at the
mizen-top-mall-head. See Flag .
Vicc-hv>w. \ ral likewife denotes, an officer in veiled with
the jurifdidtion of an admiral, within a certain diftrift.
There are a number of fuch in G. Britain.
Admjral,
Plate JLL,
ADO C 27 ) A D P
Admiral is alfo an appellation given to the moil: con-
fiderable ftiip of a fleet of merchant-men, or of the
veflels employed in the cod-fifliery of'Newfoundland.
This laft has the privilege of chuflng what place he
pleafes on the fhore to dry his fifli; gives proper or¬
ders, and appoints the fifhing places to thofe who come
after him; and as long as the iitliing-feaion continues,
he carries a flag on his main-mall'.
Admiral, in zoology, the Englilh name of a fpecies.of
the voluta, a fliell filh belonging to the order of ver¬
mes teltacea. See Voluta.
High Court of ADMIRALTY, in Scotland, the court
. in which the high-admiral is judge. See Admi¬
ral.
ADMIRATION, in general, denotes lurprife, wonder,
or aftonilhment at any extraordinary event/ Some¬
times alfo it fignifies the exnreflion of wonder.
ADMISSION, among ecclefiaftical writers, is the aft of
a bilhop’s allowing a clerk to be properly qualified for
ferving a cure.
ADM1TTENDO clsrico, in the Englilh law, a v/rit
granted to a perfon who has recovered his right of pre-
fentation againft the bilhop, &c. in the common pleas,
by which the bilhop, or metropolitan is ordained to ad¬
mit his clerk.
Admittendo in focium, in the Englilh law, a writ
for the aflbeiation of certain perfons to juftices of af-
fize formerly appointed,.
ADMONITION, in ecclefiaftic'al difcipline, is a formal
warning of an offender of his irregularities, and ad-
vifing him to reform.
ADMONFlTO fujlium, among the Romans, a milita¬
ry pumlhment, not unlike our whipping, only it was
performed with vine-branches.
ADMORTIZATION, in the feudal cufloms, the re-
dudfion of the property of lands or tenements to mort¬
main. See Mortmain.
ADNATA, inanatomy,, one of the coats of the eye, which
is alfo called conjuncliva and albuginea. See Ana¬
tomy, Part VI.
Adnata, is alfb ufed for any hair, wool, or the like,
which grows upon animals or vegetables.
ADNOUN, a term ufed by fome grammarians for an
adjedtive.
AD ofloy implied the high ell degree of perfedtion, among
ancient philafophers.
ADOLESCENCE, the flower of youth, or time of
growth in the human fpecies, commencing at infancy,
and terminating in manhood.
ADOLPH Fredrick's Schacht, a fiRer-mine in Sweden,
which, from 1742 to 1747, produced a great deal of
filver.
ADOM, in geography, a populous village in the pro¬
vince of Stuhl-Weiflenberg, belonging to. Hungary.
It lies in a fruitful country, towards the river Da¬
nube, 19. 20. long. 47. 30. lat.,
ADONAI, one of the names of the Supreme Being in
the feriptures. The proper meaning of the word is
my lords, in the plural number, as Adoni is my lord
in the lingular.
ADONIA, in mythology, feftivals in honour of Venus,
and in memory of Adonis, with whom fhe is faid to
have been in love.
ADONIAS, in botany, an obfolete name of the anemone.
See Anemone.
ADONIDES, in botany, a name given to botanifts who
deferibed or made catalogues of plants cultivated in
any particular place.
AD.ONION, in botany, an obfolete name of a fpecies of
fouthernwood.
ADONIS, in zoology. See Exocoetus.
Adonis, in botany, a genus of the polyandria poly-
gynia clafs. The Englilh names are, adonis-flower,
pheafant’s eye, red maithes, or re’d morocco. The
calix of this genus is pentaphyllous, the petals are
five, and the feeds are naked. There are five fpecies
of the adonis, viz. the reflivalis, autumnalis, verna-
lis, appennina, and capenfis; none of which are natives
of Britain, excepting the autumnalis. See Plate III.
fig. 1. which reprefents the adonis appennina.
Adonis potto, in antiquity, an ancient beverage made
of wine, mixed with flower of roafled adon. It was
the fame with cyceon.
ADOPTIANI, in church hiftory, a fefl of antient he¬
retics, followers of Felix of Urgel, and Elipand of
Toledo, who, towards the end of the eighth century,
advanced the notion, that Jelus Chrift, in his human
nature, is the Son of God, not by nature, but by adop¬
tion.
ADOPTION, a folemn adl whereby any one takes an¬
other man’s fon into his family, and makes him his
heir, invefling him with all the rights and privileges
of a fon.
ADOPTIVE, in general, fignifies any thing adopted.
Thus we fay, adoptive children, &c.
Adoptive arms, in heraldry, or, arms of adoption,
thofe which a gerfon enjoys by the gift or conceflion of
another, and to. which he was net otherwife intitled..
ADOPTIVE See Adoptiani.
ADORATION, is the homage and fubmilfion due to
the Supreme Being.
ADOSSEE, in heraldry, fignifies two figures or bearings,
being placed back to back. Thus the arms of the
dutchy of Bar are two bars udojfee, or back to back,
ADOUR, the name of a river of France, which rifes. in
the mountains of Bigorre, and running N. by Tarbes
through Gafcony, afterwards turns E. and, gaffing by
Dax, falls into the bay of Bifcay, below Bayonne.
ADOXA, or TpBERosE Moschatel, in botany, a
genus of the odlandria tetragynia clafs. There is on¬
ly one fpecks of the adoxa, which is a native, of Bri¬
tain and other parts of Europe.
APPERCEPTION, a term ufed by Leibnitz for the a-Slr
whereby the mind becomes confcious of its perceptions!
AD p-ndus omnium, among phyficians, an abbreviation
in their preferiptions, fignifying that the lafl mention¬
ed ingredient is to weigh as much as all the reft to¬
gether.
AD quod damnum, in the Englifh law, a writ diredled
to the fheriff, commanding him to enquire into the da¬
mage which may befal from granting certain privileges
to a place, as a fair, market, or the like.
ADKA,
ADV (28) ADV
ADR A, in geography, a fea-port town of Spain, in the
kingdom of Granada, 37 miles S. E. of Granada,
■ and 12 S. W. of Almeria, 1. 10, W. long. 36. O. lat.
ADRACANTH. See Thagacan-th.
ADRACHNE, in botany, an obfolete name of a fpecies
of arbutus. See Arbutus.
ADRAMMELECH, in antiquity, or mythology, a
deity worlhipped by the inhabitants of Sepharvaim, a
people planted in the Holy Land by the kings of Af-
lyria, after Salmanazar had taken Samaria, and put
a final period to the kingdom of Ifrael. The wor-
fhippers of Adr»nmelech burnt their children in the
fire to the honour of that idol. The name is Perfian,
and fignifies the magnificent king.
ADRIUNE, in botany, an obfoiete name of the cycla¬
men. See Cvclamen.
ADROBE, the name of two rivers in that part of Afia-
tic Tartary which is fubjedt to Mofcovy: They both
fall into the Wolga beneath Cazan.
ADSCRIPTS, a term ufed by fome mathematicians for
the natural tangents. See Tangent.
ADSIDELLA, in antiquity, the table at which the
flamens fat during the facrifices.
ADSTAT, a fmall town belonging to Denmark in the
illand of Iceland, not far from Holar.
ADSTRICTION, among phylicians, a term ufed to de¬
note the rigidity of any part.
ADVANCE, in the mercantile ftyle, denotes money
paid before goods are delivered, work done, or bufi-
nel's performed.
ADVANCED ditch, in fortification, is that which lur-
rounds the glacis or efplanade of a place.
Advanced guard, or vanguard, in the art of war, the
firll line or divifion of an army, ranged, or marching
in order of battle; or, it is that part which is next
the enemy, and marches firft towards them.
Advanced guard, is more paticularly ufed for a fmall
party of horfe Rationed before the main-guard.
ADVANCER, among fportfmen, one of the Harts, or
branches of a buck’s attire, between the back antler
and the palm.
ADUAR, in the Arabian and Moorilh cuftoms, a kind
of ambulatory village, confifting of tents, which thefe
people remove from one place to another, as fuits their
conveniency.
ADVENT, in the kalendar, properly fignifies the ap¬
proach of the feaft of the Nativity. It includes four
fundays, which begin on St Andrew’s day, or on the
Sunday before or after it. During advent, and to the
end of the oftaves of Epiphany, the folemnizing of
marriage is forbid, without a fpecial licence.
ADVENTITIOUS, an epithet applied to any thing that
is accidental or fortuitous.
AD VENTREM infpiciendum, inlaw, a writ by which
a woman is to be fearched whether Ihe be with child
by a former hufband, on her with-holding of lands
from the next, failing iffue of her own body.
ADVENTURE, in a general fenfe, fome extraordina¬
ry or accidental event. It alfo denotes a hazardous
or difficult undertaking.
H/Y/c/'Ad venture, among merchants, a writing fign-
ed by a merchant, teftifying the goods mentioned in
it to be Ihipped on board a certain vcflel belonging
to another perfon, who is to run all hazards; the
merchant only obliging himfelf to account to him for
the produce.
ADVENTURER, in a general fenfe, denotes one who
hazards fomething.
ADVERB, in grammar, a word joined to verbs, ex-
preffing the manner, time, <bc. of an adtion: thus,
in the phrafe, he nxias 'warmly attached to the interejl
of hit tnajler, the word warmly is an adverb. Sec
Grammar.
ADVERSARIA, among the ancients, a book of ac¬
counts, not unlike our journals, or day-books. It is
more particularly ufed for a kind of common-place-
book. See Common-place-book.
ADVERSARY, a perfon who is an enemy to, or oppo-
fes another.
ADVERSATIVE, in grammar, a word expreffing fome
difference between what goes before and what follows
it. Thus, in the phrale, he is an honeft man, but a
great enthufiajl, the word but is an adverfative con-
jundtion.
ADVERSATOR, in antiquity, a fervant who attended
the rich in returning from fupper, to give them notice
of any obftacles in the way, at which they might be apt
to Rumble.
ADVERTISEMENT, in a general fenfe, denotes any
information given to perfons interefled in an affair;
and is more particularly ufed for a brief account of an
affair inferred in the public papers, for the information
of all concerned.
ADULT, an appellation given to any thing that is ar¬
rived at maturity : Thus we fay, an adult perfon, an
adult plant, he. Among civilians, it denotes a youth
between fourteen and twenty-five years of age.
ADULTERATION, the adt of debafing, by an impro¬
per mixture, fomething that was pure and genuine
ADULTERY, an unlawful commerce between one mar¬
ried perfon and another, or between a married and un¬
married perfon. See Sc«*ts Law, titles, Marriage,
and Crimes.
ADVOCATE, among the Romans, a perfon who un¬
dertook the defence of caufes. The term is Rill kept
up in all countries where the civil law obtains.
Xing's Advocate, is the principal crown-lawyer in
Scotland. His bufinefs is to adt as a public profecu-
tor, and to plead in all caufes that concern the crown;
but particularly in fuch as are of a criminal nature.
The office of King’s advocate is not very ancient: It
feems to have been ellablilhed about the beginning of
the 16th century. Originally he had no power to
profecute crimes without the concurrence of a private
party; but in the year 1597, he was impowered to
profecute crimes at his own inRance.
Faculty of Advocates, in Scotland, a refpedtable bo¬
dy of lawyers, who plead in all caufes before the
Courts of Seffion, JuRiciary, and Exchequer. They
are alfo intitled to plead in the houfe of peers, and o-
ther fupreme courts in England.
In the year 1660, the faculty founded a library
upon
A D V (
upon a very extenfive plan, fuggefted by that learned
and eminent lawyer Sir George M'Kenzie of Rofe-
hangh, advocate to King Charles II. and King James
VII. who enriched it with many valuable books. It
has been daily increafing fince that time, and now con¬
tains not only the beft collection of law-books in Eu¬
rope, but a very large and feleCt collection of books on
all fubjeCts. Befides, this library contains a great
number of original manufcripts, and a vaft variety of
Jewifh, Grecian, Roman, Scots, and Engliih coins
and medals.
A candidate for the office of an advocate undergoes
three feveral trials : The firft is in Latin, upon the ci¬
vil law and Greek and Roman antiquities ; the fecond,
in Engliffi, upon the municipal law of Scotland; and
in the third, he is obliged to defend a Latin thefis,
which is impugned by three members of the faculty.
Immediately before putting on the gown, the candidate
makes a ffiort Latin fpeech to the lords, and then takes
the oaths to the government and de fideli.
The faculty at prefent confifts of above 200 mem¬
bers. As an advocate or lawyer is efteemed the gen-
teeleft profeffion in Scotland, many gentlemen of for¬
tune take the degree of advocate, without having any
intention of praCtifing at the bar. This circumftance
greatly increafes their number, gives dignity to the
profeffion, and enriches their library and public fund.
It is from this refpeCtable body, that all vacancies on
'' the bench are generally fupplied.
Fifcal Advocate, fifci advocatus, in Roman antiqui¬
ty, an officer of ftate under the Roman Emperors, who
pleaded in all caufes wherein the fifcus, or private trea-
fury, was concerned.
Conjijlortal Advocates, officers of the confiltory at
Rome, who plead in all oppofitions to the difpofal of
benefices in that court; they are ten in number.
Advocate of a city, in the German polity, a magi-
ftrate appointed in the Emperor’s name to adminifter
juftice.
Bill of ADVOCATION, in Scots law, a writing drawn
up in the form of a petition, whereby a party, in an ac¬
tion before an inferior court, applies to the fupreme
court, or court of Seffion, for calling the adion from
the inferior court before itfelf. See Law, title, Ju-
rifdiftion, and judges in general.
Letters of AnvockTioti, in Scots law, the decree or
warrant of the court of Seffion upon cognifance of the
fads fet forth in the bill, drawn up in the form of a
fummons, and paffing under the fignet, difcharging the
inferior judge and all others from further procedure in
the caufe, and advocating it to itfelf. See Bill of
Advocation.
ADVOCATIONE decimarum, a writ which lies for
claiming a fourth part for tithes, or upwards, belong¬
ing to any church.
ADVOUSON, orAnvouzEN. SccAdvowzon.
ADVOU, in law, fignifies the patron of a church, or
he who has a right to prefent to a benefice.
Paramount ADVOWEE, is ufed for the king, as be¬
ing the higheft patron.
ADVOWING. See Avowing.
Vod. I. No. 2. 3
29 ) iE G I
ADVOWTRY, a term ufed in fome old law-books for
adultery.
ADVOWZON, in law, is the right of patronage, or
prefenting to a vacant benefice.
ADUST, among phyficians, a term applied to the blood,
<bc. when too hot and fiery..
ADU STION, among phyficians, the fame with inflam¬
mation.
ADYTUM, in pagan antiquity, the mod retired and fa-
cred place of their temples, into which none but the
priefis were allowed to enter.
ADZEL, a fmall town of Livonia, fituated on the fouth-
fide of the river Aa, about ten German leagues fouth-
weft of Dorpt.
rEACEA, in Grecian antiquity, folemn feftivals and
games celebrated.at iEgina, in honour of Abacus; who,
on account of his juftice upon earth, v/as thought to
to have been appointed one of the judges in hell.
^ECHMALOTARCHA, in Jewifh antiquity, the title
given to the principal leader or governor of the Hebrew
captives refiding in Chaldea, Aflyria, and the neigh¬
bouring countries.
aEDES, in Roman antiquity, befides its more ordinary
fignification of a houfe, likewife figniiied an inferior
kind of temple, cpnfecrated to fome deity.
aEDICULA, a term ufed to denote the inner part of
the temple, where the altar and ftatue of the deity ftood.
aEDILATE, the office of sedile, fometimes called xdi-
lity. See the next article.
aEDILE, in Roman antiquity, a magiftrate whofe bu-
finefs it was to fuperintend buildings of all kinds, but
more efpecially public ones, as temples, aquaedu&s,
high-ways, bridges, <&>c. , .
AiiDlTUUS, in Roman antiquity, an officer belonging
to the temples, who had the charge of the offerings,
treafure, and facred utenfils. The female deities had
a woman-officer of this kind called teditua.
ACGAGROPILA, a ball compofedof afubftance refem-
bling hair, generated in the ftomach of the chamois-
goat. This ball is of the fame nature with thofe found
in cows, hogs, foe.
aEGILETHRON, in botany, an obfolete name of the
mercurialis. See Mercurialis.
JEGIAS, among phyficians, a white fpeck on the pupil
of the eye, which oceafions dimnefs of fight.
jEGILOPS, among phyficians, afpecies of abfeefs. See
Surgery, title,. Of abfeefes, or tumors.
jEgilops, in botany, a genus of the polygamia monoecia
clafs. There are five fpecies of this plant, which is a
kind of grafs, .viz. the ovata, caudata, fquarrofa,
triuncialis, and incurvata, only the kft of which is a
native of Britain, and grows by the fea-ffiore. The
Engliffi name is fca-hard-grafs.
aEGINETIA, in botany, a fynonime of a fpecies'of oro-
banche. See Orobanche.
aEGIPAN, in heathen mythology, a denomination given
to the god Pan. becaufe he was reprefented with the
horns, legs, feet, foe. of a goat.
AEGIS, in heathen mythology, is particularly ufed for
the ffiield or cuirafs of Jupiter and Pallas,
AEGIUCHUS, in heathen mythology, a firname of Ju-
t H piter.
JE O N (3
p-ter, given him on account ofhis having been fuckled
by a goat.
j5.GLEFINUS, or Haddock, in ichthyology, a fpe-
cies of the gadus. See Gadus.
iEGOCEPHALUS, in ornithology, an obfolete name
of a fpecies of tringa. See Tringa.
iEGOCERAS, in botany, an obfolete name of a fpecies
of ononis. See Ononis.
jEGOCERATOS, in botany, a fynonime of the hugo-
nia. See Hugonia.
iEGOLETHRON, in botany, an obfolete name of the
rhododendron hirfutum. See Rhododendron.
jEGONICHUS, in botany, an obfolete name of the li-
thofpermum. See Lithospermum.
iEGOPHTHALMUS, a name given to any of the fe-
mipellucid gems with circular fpots in them, refembling
the eye of a goat.
JEGOfOGON, in botany, an obfolete name of the tra-
gapodon. See Tragapodon.
iEGOPODIUM, a genus of the pentandria digynia
clafs. There is but one fpecies of this plant, which
is a native of Britain and other parts of Europe.
The Englifh name is berb-gerurd, gout-tweed, or ajh-
'weed.
iEGYPTIACUM, in pharmacy, the name of feveral
detergent ointments.
iEGYPTILLA, the name of a hone variegated with
different colours, and faid to be capable of giving wa¬
ter the colour and tafte of wine.
jEINAUTiE, in antiquity, a denomination given to
the fenators of Miletus, becaufe they held their deli¬
berations on board a flrip, and never returned to land
till matters had been agreed on.
iELURUS, in Egyptian mythology, the deity or god of
cats ; reprefented fometimes like a cat, and fometimes
like a man with a cat’s head.
AiNEATORES, in Roman antiquity, a general name
for the muficians of an army.
./ENIGMA, denotes any dark faying, wherein fome well-
knotvn thing is concealed under obfcure language.
iENiGMATOGRAPHY, or AInigmathology, the
art of refolving, or making tenigmas.
jEOLIC, in a general fenfe, denotes fomething belong¬
ing to AColisv.
,/Eolic dialed, among grammarians, one of the- five
diale&s of the Greek tongue, agreeing in moll things
with the.Doric diale<a. See Doric.
RLo\.\q. verfe, in profody, a verfe, confilling of an iam¬
bus, or fpcndee; then of two anapelts, feparated by a
long fy liable; and lallly, of another fy liable. Such as,
0 Jleiliferi conditor orbit.
^EOEIPILE, a hollow metalline ball with a flender
neck, cr pipe ; which after being filled with water,
and a great degree of heat applied to it, the water
ifiues out with great velocity in the form of an elaftic
vapour. See Pneumatics.,
jEOLIS, in ancient geography, a country lying,upon the
vvelt.rn coail of Alia Minor.
' A’iOLU S, .the god of the winds-
ALON, fignifies the age or duration of any thing.
o ) A E R
JEon, among the Platonifls, was ufed to denote any vir¬
tue, attribute, or perfedlion.
Ason, in mythology, the firll woman, according to the
Phoenician writers.
Alon, among anatomifls, an obfolete name for the fpinal
marrow.
fEONIAN, in botany, an obfolete name of the fedum ma-
jus. See Sedum.
A1RA, in chronology, aferies of years commencing from
a certain fixed point of time, called an epoeha ; thus
we fay, the Chriflian sera, that is, the number of years
elapfed fince the birth of Chrilt. See Astronomy,
Of the divifion of time.
Asra of Nabenajfar. See Nabonassar.
/Era of the Hegira. See Hegira.
AtRARIUM, in Roman antiquity, the treafury or place
where the public money was depofited.
AIrarium privatum, was the emperor’s privy purfe, or
place where the moneys arifing from his private patri¬
mony were depofited.
AsRARIUS, in a general fenfe, denotes any perfon em¬
ployed in coining or managing the public monies.
Alrarius was more particularly ufed by the Romans
for a degraded citizen, whofe name had been ftruck off
the lift of his century.
Theaerarii were fo called on account of their being
liable to all the taxes and other burdens of the ftate,
without enjoying any of its privileges. Hence, inter
ararios referri, was a more fevere punifhment than
tribu moveri.
AERIAL, in a general fenfe, denotes fomething parta¬
king of the nature of air; thus, aerial fubftance, aeri¬
al particles, &c.
AERIANS, in church-hiftory, a branch of Arians, who,
to the dodtrineS of that fed, added fome peculiar dog¬
mas of their own ; as, that there is no difference be¬
tween biihops and priefts ; a dodrine maintained by
many modern divines, particularly of the prelbyterian
and reformed churches.
AERICA, in ichthyology, a fynonime of the clupea hg-
rengus, or herring. See Clupea.
Flos AIRIS, among alchemifts, fmall fcales procured
from copper melted by a. ftrong heat; it is lometimes
ufed for aerugo or verdegris.
AEROGRAPHY fignifies a defcription of the air, efpe-
ciailyof its dinaenfions, and other, moft obvious pro¬
perties; in which fenfe it differs but little from ucro-
logy, which is a Icientifical account of the nature andlefs
obvious properties of air. See Pneumatics.
AEROMANCY, a fpecies of divination performed by
means of air, wind, It is alfo ufed for the art
ef foretelling the various changes of the air and wea¬
ther, by means of barometers, hygrometers, fsc..
AEROMETRY, the art of meafuring the. motion, gra¬
vity, elafticity, rarefadion, condeniation, fcc. of air.
See Pneumatics.
AEROPHOBIA, among phyficians, fignifies the dread
of air.
AEROPHYLACEA, a term ufed by naturalifts for ca¬
verns or refervoirs of air, fuppofed to exift in the
bowels of the earth.
AfRRA,
JE S T
iERRA, a fmall town of Portugal, in the province of
Eftramadura, fituated upon the river Zatas.
AERESCHOT, a town of the Dutch Netherlands, fi¬
tuated in Brabant, about fifteen miles ea ft ward of
Mechlin.
JERUGINOUS, in ornithology, the trivial name of a
fpecies of falco. See Falco.
aERUGiNous, an epithet given to fuch things are re¬
ferable or partake of the nature of the ruft of cop¬
per.
ASRUGO, properly fignifies the ruft of copper, or ver-
degris ; but is applied indifferently to ruft of any kind.
AERUGO falis, a kind of reddilh flimy matter, fepara-
ted from Egyptian tiatrum ; probably a mixture of
bitumen and a red earth.
iERUSCATORES, in antiquity, a kind of ftrolting
beggars, not unlike gypfies, who drew money from
the credulous by fortune-telling, fac. It was alfo a
denomination given to gripping exadlors, or coiledfors
of the revenue.
AERY, or Airy, among fportfmen. See Airy.
jES, properly fignifies copper, or money coined of that
metal. See Copper.
jEs fiavum, yellow copper, among the Romans, an ap¬
pellation given to the coaifer kinds of brafs. See
Brass.
jEs caldarium, the name of a certain regulus of antimo¬
ny, employed in preparing the fine blue colour called
fmalt.
aEs ufium, a preparation of copper, by expofing plates
of it in a reverberatory furnace, till they crumble in¬
to a powder, which is called <es ujium. It is ufed for
colouring glafs, eating off dead flefti, or cleanfing foul
ulcers.
.AiSALON, in ornithology, an obfolete name of a fpecies
of falco. See Falco.
iESCH, in ichthyology, an obfolete name of a fpecies of
falmo. See Sal mo.
jESCHYNOMENE, in botany, a genus of the diadel-
phia decandria clafs. There are feven fpecies of this
genus, none of which are natives of Britain. The ca-
lix of the sefehynomene is bilabiated, and the pod joint¬
ed. It is alfo a fynonime of feveral fpecies of the mi-
mofa, or fenfitive plant. See Mimosa.
iESCULANUS, or jEres, in mythology, adeitywho
prefided over the coinage of copper-money.
yESCELAPIUSV fsrpait, or Coluber jEsculapii.
See Coluber.
iESCULUS, in botany, a genus of the heptandria mo-
nogynia clafs. There are only two fpecies of it, viz.
the caftanum, and the pavia, both natives of India,
The calix of the sefculus is monophyllous with five
teeth; the corolla has five petals unequally coloured,
and inferted into the calix.
JESTIMATIO capitis, a term met with in old law-books
for a fine anciently ordained to be paid for offences
committed againft perfons of quality, according to their
feveral degrees.
.ESTIVAL, in a general fenfe, denotes fomething con-
neded with, or belonging to fummer. Hence, aeftxval
fign, aeftival folftice, isc..
m t h
jESTUARIA, in geography, denotes an arm of the
fea, which runs a good way within land. Such is the
Briftol channel, and many of the friths of Scotland.
AESTUARIES, in ancient baths, were fecret paffages
from the hypocauftum into the chambers. See Bath,
and Hypocaustum.
.ESTUARY, among phyficians, a vapour-bath, or any
other inftrument for conveying heat to the body.
ETH, or Ath, a llrong little town in the Auftrian
Netherlands, and province of Hainault, fituated on
the river Dender, about twenty miles S. W. of Bruf-
fels.
ETHALE, a term ufed by the ancients for the cadmia
fornacum. See Cadmia.
ETHALIES, a name given by the Greeks to the fedum.
See Sedum.
ETHER, the name of an imaginary fluid, fuppofed by
feveral authors, both ancient and modern, to be the
caufe of gravity, heat, light, mufcular motion, fenfa-
tion, and, in a word, of every phtenomenon in natdre.
Anaxagoras maintained that sether was of a fimilar na¬
ture with fire; Perrault reprefents it as 7200 times
more rare than air; and Hook makes it more denfe
than gold itfelf. Whoever has an inclination to know
the various hypothefes concerning aether, may confult
Shebbere, Perrault, Hook’s pofthumous works, \Afi.
Erud. Lipf. 1716, Bernouilli’s Cogitat. degravitate
atheris, Ike. See.
Before the method of philofophifing by indudion was
known, the hypothefes of philofophers were wild, fan¬
ciful, ridiculous. They hadreeburfe to tether, occult
qualities, and other imaginary caufes, in order to ex¬
plain the various phaenomena of nature: But fince
the days of the great Lord Verulam, who may be ftyled
the parent of genuine philofophy, a contrary courfe has
happily been followed. He convinced the world, that
all knowledge mult be derived from experiment and
obfervation; and that every attempt to inveftigate
caufes by any other means muft be unfuccefsful. Since
his time, the beft philofophers have followed the trad
which he pointed out. Boyle, Locke, Newton, Hales,
and a few others, in little more than one century,
have improved and extended feience far beyond what
the accumulated force of all the philofophers fince the
creation had been able to effeduate : A ftriking proof
both of the comprehenfive genius of Bacon, and of the
fblidity of his plan of inveftigation..
It muft indeed be acknowledged, that there is apro-
penfity in the human mind, which, unlefs it be pro¬
perly reftrained, has a dired tendency both to corrupt
fcience, and to retard our progrefs in it. Not contented
with the examination of objeds which readily fall with¬
in the fphere of our obfervation, we feel a ftrong de¬
fire to account for things which, from their very na¬
ture, muft, and ever will, elude our refearches. Even
Sir Ifaac Newton himfelf was not proof againft this
temptation. It was not enough that he had difeovered
the nature of light and colours, the application of gra¬
vity to the motions of the heavenly bodies, ire. he muft
go further, and attempt to aflign the caufe of gravity it-
lelL But,Low does-he proceed in this matter ?* Not in
tire
( 31 )
iE T H (32
the way of experiment, which had led him to his former
difcoveries, but in the way of conjecture, which will
never lead any man to truth. He had recourfe to a
fubtile elalUc sther, not much different from that of
the ancients, and by it accounted for every thing he
did not know, fuch as the caufe of gravitation, mufcu-
lar motion, fenfation, ebc.
Notwithftanding the reputation of Sir Ifaac, philo-
fophers have generally looked upon this attempt as the
foible of a great man, or, at lead, as the mod ufelefs
part of his works ; and accordingly perufe it rather as
a dream or a romance, than as having any connection
with fcience. B ut we are forry to find, that fome
late attempts have been made to revive this doCtrine of
tether, particularly in a differtation De ortu animalium
caloris, publiftied in May lad.
As the revival of ah old doCtrine becomes in fome
meafure a mew one, we fluill plead no other apology
for inferring a fpee men of the method of reafoning
employed in this differtation.
The author makes frequent ufe of a fpecies of ar¬
gument termed dilemma by logicians. For example,
in the fird part of the work, after endeavouring to
prove that animal heat cannot be owing to fermenta¬
tion, the motion of the fluids, and other caufes that
have ufualfy been afligned, he draws this conclufion:—
“ If none of thefe caufes are fufficient to produce the
“ effeft; therefore, by dilemma,” fays he, “ it mud be
“ fought for in the nature and aClion of the nerves.”
—This is a new fpecies of dilemma : —If the author
had proved, that the caufe of heat in animals could
not poflibly exid axj ’where, but either in fermenta¬
tion, the motion of the fluids, fee. or in the nerves,
after having difproved its exidence in all the red, his
conclufion in favour of the nerves would have been jud;
but, as he has not fo much as attempted this, the
conclufion is not only falfe, but ridiculous.
However, upon the authority of this dilemma, the au¬
thor fird gives what he calls a Compend of a ?2eiu doc¬
trine concerning the nerves, and then proceeds toinquire
in what manner the*nerves produce animal heat: He
tells us, “ That thought (cogitatio) and fenfation depend
“ uponimpulfes either on the extremities of the nerves,
ct or the fenforium commune, and the confequent mo-
“ tions produced by thefe impulfes: That thefe motions
“ are fo quick, as to be almod indantaneous: That as
“ all motion is mechanical; therefore thought, fen-
“ fation, and mufcular motion, mud like wife be me-
“ chanical: That fuch quick motions cannot be pro-
/* duced without the intervention of fome extreme-
“ ly eladic power; and, as Sir Ifaac Newton has
** Ihown, that the impulfes which occafion the diffe-
“ rent fenfations mud be owing to an eladic power;
“ therefore the mufcular motions of animals mud be
“ occafiohed by the ofcillations of fome eladic power.”
“ But,” fays he, “ as this eladic power cannot ex-
“ id in the folid nervous fibres, nor in any ineladic
“ fluid; therefore, by dilemma, it mud exid in an
“ eladic fluid ; and hence alfo, by the former dilemma,
“ this elaflic fluid mud be feated, either in the nerves,
“ or in their medullary fubftance.”
} JE T H
Here again the author calls Sir Ifaac into his aflid-
ance.—“ What confirms this opinion,” fays he, “ is
“ the Newtonian tether, which pervades all nature,
“ and which, v/ith a few variations in its modification,
“ Sir Iiaac has ftiown to be the caufe of cohefion, e-
“ ladicity, gravity, eleftricity, magnetifm, ire. in
“ the following manner: 1. As the rays of light,
“ when r^ge&ed, do not touch the folid parts of bo-
“ dies, but are reflected a little before they reach
“ them, it is plain that the aether not only fills the
“ pores of bodies, but likewife floats upon their fur-
“ faces; and hence it becomes the caufe of attraction
“ and repulfion.— 2. All metals, and ineladic fluids,
“ are non-eledtrics ; on the other hand, all folid bo-
“ dies, metals excepted, are eleCtrics, /. e. proper for
“ accumulating aether. But aether, thus accumulated
“ in fuch a variety of bodies, may produce various
“ motions in the parts of thefe bodies, without indu-
“ cing any change in the bodies themfelves. Hence
“ aether, with fome variations in its modification, is
“ fufficient to account for all the phaenomena of elec-
“ tricity. 3. As iron, by accumulating aether around
“ it, exhibits all the wonders of magnetifm; fo this
“ magnetical aether is more analogous to the nervous
“ aether of animals than any other kind of it. For,
“ as the magnetical aether paffes along iron without
“ changing any part of the iron; fo the nervous aether,
“ in like manner, paffes along the medullary fubftance
“ of the nerves, and excites motion in any part that is
" continuous with them, without inducing any change
“ in the nerves.-— 4. The irritability and life of
“ plants, which very much referable thofe in animals,
“ cannot be explained, by any inelaftic caufe, and
“ muft therefore be attributed to an aetherial one.
“ Laftly, As the common sether is differently modi-
“ fied in each of the fubftances above taken notice
“ of, and alfo produces various motions or effe&s pe-
“ culiar to each, it likewife varies and has fome pe-
“ culiar qualities when refiding in animal bodies; fo
“ that the nervous or animal sther is not exactly the
“ fame, but differs in fome refpefts from thofe fpecies
“ of aether which give rife to cohefion, gravity, mag-
“ netifm, eledlricity,” <bc.
Having thus explained the nature and qualities of
aether, our author ftarts a very important queftion, viz.
“ Whence is aether derived ? and whether does it leave
“ anybody after having once got poffeffion of it?”
In anfwer to this, he obferves, “ That certain bodies
“ have the power of colledting the eleArical matter
“ from every circumjacent body, and of accumula-
“ ting it in their pores and on their furfaces, but do
“ not fuffer it again to tranfmigrate into any other
“ body. There are other fubftances of an oppofite
“ nature, which do not accumulate the eleftric mat-
“ ter, but inftantly allow it to pafs into others, unlefs
“ prohibited by an ele&ric. Hence,” fays he, “ no-
“ thing more is neceffary for fubftances of the former
“ kind, but to be in fuch circumftances as allow them
“ to accumulate the eledtric matter. In the fame
“ manner,” proceeds our author, “ the nervous sether,
“ which is differed through every, part of nature,
“ flows
JE T H ( 33
<( flows copioufly into the medullary part of the nerves,
“ when no obllacle (lands in its way: but, when once
“ it has got there, it keeps firm pofleflion, and never
“ afterwards leaves it. Now,” lays he, “ a quan-
“ tity of aether probably conftitutes one of the (lami-
“ nal parts of animal bodies, and increafes in propor-
“ tion to their age and growth: For nothing is more
“ ridiculous than to fuppofe that what is commonly
“ called the nervous fluid can be daily wafted by la-
“ hour and exercife, and daily repaired by a new fe-
“ cretion from the brain. To refute this vulgar no-
“ tion, nothing more is neceftary than to fay, That
“ it is one of Boerhaave's theories, and mujl be falfe,
“ as all Boerhaave’s other theories have been proved
“ to be ill-founded! But aether is of a more fixed
“ and determinate nature ; whenever it gets pofleflion
“ of any fubftance, it never forfakes it, unlefs the
“ texture and conftitution of the body itfelf be chan-
“ ged. Hence,” continues our author, “ the aether
“ of an acid body remains as long as the body conti-
“ nues to be acid; the fame obfervation holds with
“ regard to the aether of an alkaline body: But, if
“ thefe two be blended together into a neutral fait,
“ the aether muft likewife be changed into a neutral;
“ and therefore, in the formation of the medullary
“ or ftaminal part of animals, the aether which before
“ belonged to, or had the properties of fome other fub-
“ ftance, is inftantaneoufly changed into animal aether,
“ and remains fo till the diflblution of that animal.”
Our author next obferves, “ That bodies require to
“ be in a certain (late or condition in order to the for-
“ mation of an aether that is proper for them. This
“ condition of bodies is called an excitedJlate: Thus,
“ as fulphur, when fluid, does not receive the elediric
“ matter, but, when folid, inftantly receives it; in
“ the fame manner, the nerves, though properly
“ formed, do not admit an aether adapted to their
“ nature, unlefs they be in an excited (late. Hence,”
fays he, “ the aether of a dead, and that of a living
“ perfon, are very different, although the texture and
“ figure of the nerves be the fame. The (late necef-
“ fary for conftituting the aether of a living animal,
“ feems to depend on heat and moifture; becaufe thele
4‘ things are abfolutely neceflary in the conftitution of
“ life: And hence,” concludes our author, “ the ex-
“ cited date of the nerves depends on heat and moi-
“ (lure. There are alfo certain circumftances,” fays
he, “ which contribute to render the (late of the
“ nerves more or lefs apt for accumulating aether: A
“ fpafmodic fever, for example, renders the nerves of
“ the whole body lefs pervious to the motion of the
“ aether ; and hence, in cafes of this nature, health,
“ and all the vital funflions, muft be injured.”
“ Thefe,” our author obferves, “ are the outlines
“ of a ne-vj doctrine concerning the nature and func-
“ tions of the nerves;” and, upon this foundation,
proceeds to give his nenn theory of animal heat.
“ From the foregoing reafoning,” fays he, “ the
“ heat, as well as all the fundHons of animals, feem
“ to be occafioned by the ofcillations of the nervous
“ aether betwixt the extremities of the fentient nerves
Vol. I. No. 2. 3
) i£ T II
“ and the brain, or, more properly, betwixt the brain
“ and mufcles. But electrical aether, as above ob-
“ ferved, varies a little from common aether; all in-
“ elaftic fluids, as was likewife formerly remarked,
“ are non-eledtrics ; and all folid bodies, metals ex-
“ cepted, are eleCtrics: Thefe circumftances,” fays
our author, “ feem to be owing to the ofcillations of
“ the eleCtric matter in bodies. In the fame manner,”
fays he, “ the nature of animals maybe fuch,andthe
“ nerves may be fo conftituted, as to form an tether ad-
“ aptcd to their nature, and to excite tbofe ofcillations
“ which occafion animal heat. The v/onderful effeCls
“ of heat and cold upon the nerves,” continues cur
author, “ confirms this theory: Every aCtion, and
“ even life itfelf, requires a certain degree of heat;
“ for, as the heat of the external air is fo variable, it
“ was abfolutely neceflary that animal bodies (hould
“ be endowed with the faculty of producing a degree
“ of heat fuited to their nature, independent of ex-
“ ternal circumftances : Hence we fee the reafon why
“ the degree of heat fo feldom varies in the fame fpe-
“ cies of animals. However, although the nervous
“ sether is always ready for exciting heat by its ofcil-
“ lations; yet, in order to bring about this effeCt fuc-
“ cefsfully, external ftimuli are neceflary, otherwife
“ the aether would be in danger of Jlagnating, which
“ would occafion deep, a pally, and, laft of all, death.
“ The moft permanent of thefe Jiisnuli is the pulfa-
“ tion of the arteries; which is the reafon why heat
“ is fo connedled with the circulation of the blood,
“ and why many authors have miftaken it for the true
“ caufe of animal heat.”
Our author now concludes with obferving, “ That
“ by his theory, the varieties of heat in different parts
“ of the body, the heat and fluftring of the face from
“ (harr.e, and all the other phaenomena of heat in ani-
“ mal bodies, admit of a better explanation, than by
“ any other theory hitherto invented.”
Having thus given a pretty full account of an at¬
tempt to explain the moft abftrufe operations of na¬
ture, as nearly as pofiible in the very words of the
author, - we cannot deny ourfelves the liberty of ma¬
king a few obfervations.
To give a formal refutation of this author’s reafon¬
ing, is no part of our plan. It is, perhaps, wrong
to fay that he has reafned; for the whole hypothe¬
tical part of his effay is a mere farrago of vague afler-
tions, non-entities, illogical conclufions, and extra¬
vagant fancies. His aether feems to be an exceedingly
traflable fort of fubftance: V^Jienever the qualities of
one body differ from thofe of another, a different mo¬
dification of cether at once folves the phaenomenon.
The aether of iron muft not, to be fure, be exaftly
the fame with the nervous aether, otherwife it would
be in danger of producing fenfation in place of mag-
netifm. It would likewife have been very improper
to give the vegetable aether exaftly the fame quali¬
ties with thofe of animal aether; for, in fuch a cafe,
men would run great rifle of ftriking root in the foil,
and trees and hedges might eradicate and run about
the fields. Nothing can be.more ludicrous than to fee
f I a
JE T H ( 34 )
a writer treating a mere ens rationis as familiarly as if
it were an objedt of our fenfes: The notion of com¬
pounding the aether of an acid and that .of an alkali,
in order to make a neutral of it, is compleatly ridi¬
culous. But if men take the liberty of fubftituting
names in place of fads and experiments, it is an eafy
matter to account for any thing.
By this method of philofophifing, obfcurity is for
ever banilhed from the works of nature, ft is impof-
fible to gravel an aetherial philofopher. Aik him what
queftions you pleafe, his anfwer is ready:—“ As we
“ cannot find the caufe any ’where elfe; ergo, by di-
“ lemma, it mull be owing to aether !” For example,
alk one of thofe fages. What is the caufe of gravity ?
he will anfwer, ’Tis at her! A lit him the caufe of
thought, he will gravely reply, “ The folution of
“ this queltion was once univerfally allowed to ex-
“ cecd the limits of human genius : But now, by
“ the grand difcoveries we have lately made, it is
“ as plain as that three and two make five :—Thought
-M is a mere mechanical thing, an evident effedt of cer-
“ tain motions in the brain produced by the ofcilla-
“ tions of a fubtile elaftic fluid called aether /” This
is indeed aftonilhing!
Such jargon, however, affords an excellent lelfon
to the true philofopher. It Ihows to what folly and
. extravagance mankind are led, whenever they de¬
viate from experiment and obfervation in their inqui¬
ries into riature. No fooner do we leave thefe only
faithful guides to fcience, than we inllantly land in a
labyrinth of nonfenfe and obfcurity, the natural pu-
nifhment of folly and prefumption.
When endeavouring to account for that propenfity
in the human mind which prompts us to attempt the
folution of things evidently beyond our reach, we re-
eoilefied a paffage in Swift’s, works, which, explains
it in the moll fatisfadtory manner.
“ Let us next examine (fays the Dean) the great
“ introducers of new fchemes in philofophy, and
“ fearch till we can find from what faculty of the foul
“ the difpofition arifes in mortal man, of taking it
“ into his head to advance new fyftems, with fuch an
“ eager zeal, in things agreed on all hands impojfikle
“ to be known; from what feeds this difpofition
“ fprings, and to what quality of human nature thefe
“ grand innovators have been indebted for their num-
. “ ber of difciples; becaufe it is plain, that feveral of
“ the chief among them, both ancient and modern,
“ were ufually miftaken by their adverfaries, and in-
“ deed by all except t^eir own followers, to have been
“ perfons crazed, or out of their wits ; having gene-
“ rally proceeded, in the common courfe of their
“ words and adlions, by a method very different Irom
“ the vulgar di6hat.es of unrefined reafon; agreeing,
“ for the moft part, in their feveral models, with
“ their prefent undoubted fucceflbrs in the Acade-
. “ my of modern Bedlam* Of this kind were Epi-
“ cur us. Diogenes, Apollonius, Lucretius, Paracel-
“ fus, Des Carter, and others; who, if they were
“ now in the wcdd, tied fall, and feparated from
“ their followers, would, in this undijlinguijhing age.
iE T H
incur manifeft danger of phlebotomy, and whips,
and chains, and dark chambers, and Jlraw. For
what man, in the natural ftate or courfe of think¬
ing, did ever conceive it in his power to reduce the
notions of all mankind exadtly to the fame length,
and breadth, and height of his own ? Yet this is
the firft humble and civil defign of all innovators in
the empire of reafon. Now, I would gladly
be informed, how it is poflible to account for fuch
imaginations as thefe in particular men, without re-
courfe to my phanomenon of vapours, (i. e. asther),
afcending from the lower faculties to overfhadow
“ the brain, and there di/tilling into conceptions, for
“ which the narrownefs of our mother-tongue has not
“ yet afligned any other name befides that of madnefs
11 or phrenzy. Let us therefore now conjedture how
“ it comes to pafs that none of thefe great projedtors
“ do ever fail providing themfelves and their notions
“ with a number of implicit difciples; and I think
“ the reafon is eafy to be afligned.—For there is a
“ peculiar firing in the harmony of human underfland-
“ ing, which, in feveral individuals, is exadtly of the
“ fame tuning. This if you can dextroufly fcrew
“ up to its right key, and then ftrike gently upon it,.
“ whenever you have the good fortune to light among
“ thofe of the fame pitch, they will, by a fecret ne-
“ ceflary fympathy, ilrike exadtly at the fame time.
“ And in this one circuir/lance lies all the fkill or
“ luck of the matter: For if you chance to jar the
“ firing, among thofe who are either above or be-
“ low your awn height, inflead of fubfcribing to yosir
“ dodtrine, they will tie you fajl, call you mad, and
“ feed you with bread and water* It is therefore a
“ point of the nicefl condudt, to diftinguifh and adapt
“ this noble talent with refpedt to the difference of
“ perfons and of times*—For, to fpeak a bold truth,
“■ it is a fatal mifcarriage fo ill to order affairs as to
“ pafs for a fool in one company, when in another
“ you might be treated as a philofopher: Which I de-
“ fire fame certain gentlemen of my acquaintance to
“ lay up in their hearts as a very feafonable innu-
“ endoA
We would not have dwelt fo long upon this article,
had it not been to guard, as far as our influence ex¬
tends, the minds of thofe who may be unacquainted'
with the genuine principles of philofophy, from being
led into a wrong track of invefligation.
./Ether, in chymiftry, a name given to any volatile fpi-
rit. The fpirit which generally goes by that name is
procured by diflilling fpirit of wine with oil of vitriol,
and then precipitating with an alkali.. See Chemi¬
stry.,
iETHERI AL, an epithet for any thing partaking of the
nature of aether.
jETHIOPIS, in botany, a fynonime of a fpecies of fal-
via. See Salvia.
,/ETHIOPS mineral, a preparation of mercury made
by rubbing equal quantities of quickfilver and flour of
fulphur in a mortar, till the mercury wholly difappears,
and a fine black powder remains.
jEthiofs albus, a preparation of mercury made by
rubbing
A F F (3
rubbing quickfilver with a double quantity of crabs-
eyes or candied fugar, till it is extinguii'lied.
iETHIOPS of Dr Pluviher, a medicine prepared by
levigating fulphur auratum antimpnii with an equal
quantity of calomel.
A1THUSA, in botany, a genus of the pentandria di-
gynia clafs. The volucrum is dimidiated, triphyl-
lous, and pendulous. There is but one fpecies, viz.
the aethufa fynapium, or fools- parfley, a native of Bri¬
tain.
AETIANS, in church-hiftory, a branch of Arians who
maintained, that the Son and Holy Ghoft are in all
things diffimilar to the Father.
ETIOLOGY, that branch of phyfic which afligns the
caufes of difeafes.
iETITAs, or Astit-es, a name given to pebbles or
ftones of any kind which have a loofe nucleus rattling
in them, called, in Englilh, Eaglt-Jlones.
./ETNA, a famous burning mountain or volcano of Si¬
cily. It is one of the higheft mountains of the whole
ifland, and fimated on the eaftern coafl not far from
Catania. It is remarked of this mountain, that its
eruptions ceafed immediately when thofe of Vefuvius
began. See’VESuyius.
./Etna fait, a name ufed by fome authors for faline
fubftances, found near the opening of mount /Etna
and other volcanos.
/ETOLARCHA, in Grecian antiquity, the principal
magidrate or governor of the /Etolians.
AFFA, a weight ufed on the gold-coaft of Guinea, and
equal to an ounce.
AFFECTIO bovina, a diforder incident to cattle, occa-
fioned by a fmall worm which eats its way all over the
body.
AFFECTION, in a general fenfe, denotes an attribute
infeparable from its fubjeft, or an eflential property of
it. Thus, quantity, figure, weight, fee. are affec¬
tions of all bodies.
Affections of the mind. See Passions, and Mo¬
rals.
AFFEERERS, or Affeerors, in law, perfons ap¬
pointed in court-leets, courts-baron, fee. to fettle,
upon oath, the fines to be impofed upon thofe who
have been guilty of faults arbitrarily punifhable.
AFFERI, inlaw. See Averia.
AFFETUOSO, or con Affetto, in the Italian mufic,
intimates, that the part to which it is added ought to
be played in a tender moving way, and confequently
rather flow than fad.
AFFIANCE, in law, denotes the mutual plighting of
troth between a man and a woman to marry each
other.
AFFICHE, a term ufed by the French for bills or ad-
vertifements hung or paded up in public places to
make any thing known.
AFFIDATIO dominorum,. in old law-books, denotes-
an oath of allegiance taken by the lords in parliament.
AFFIDATUS, or Affidiatus, in old law-books,
fignifies a tenant by fealty, or one who put himfelf
under the protection of his lord, vowing fealty to him.
AFFIDAVIT, fignifies an oath in writing, fworn b.e-
5 ) A F R
fore fome perfon who is authorifed to take the fame.
AFFILIATION, a term ufed by fome for adoption.
See Adoption.
AFFINAGE, a term fometimes met with in old law¬
books, for the refining of metals.
AFFINITY, in Scots law, the connection formed by
marriage betwixt one of the married perfons and the
blood-relations of the other. See Law, title. Mar¬
riage.
Affinity, is alfo ufed to denote conformity or agree¬
ment : Thus we fay, the affinity of languages, the af¬
finity of words, the affinity of founds, fee.
Affinity of bodies. See Chemistry, chapter, Of
elective attraftions.
AFFIRMATION, in logic, the afferting the truth of
any propofition.
Affirmation, is alfo ufed for the. ratifying or con¬
firming the fentence or decree of fome inferior court:
thus we fay, the houfe of lords affirmed the decree of
the lord-chancellor, or the decree of the lords of Itf-
fion.
AFFIX, among grammarians, denotes much the fame
with prefix. See Prefix.
AFFLATUS, among heathen mythologifts and poets,
denotes the infpiration of fome divinity.
AFFORAGE, in the French culloms, a duty paid to
the lord of a diftrift, for permifiion to fell wine or
other liquors within his feigniory. It is alfo ufed for
the rate or price of provifions fixed by the provolt
of Paris, or by the ffieriffs.
AFFORCEMENT, among old law-writers, denotes a
fortrefs or place of llrength.
AFFORCIAMENTUM curia’, a term ufed in old
charteraly for the fummoning a court in an extraordi¬
nary manner.
AFFORESTING, in old law-books, is the turning-
lands into a foreft ; as the converting a forelt to other
ufes is called difafforejling, or deajforefing.
AFFRAY, or Affrayment, in law, formerly fignified
the crime of affrighting other perfons, by appearing
in unufual armour,. brandiffiing a weapon, fee. but at
prefent, affray denotes a Ikirmiffi or fight between
two or more.
AFFREIGHTMENT, a term ufed in fome. law-books
for the freight of a Ihip.
AFFRI, or Afra, a term met with in old law-books
for horfes, bullocks, or any beaft ufed in ploughing.
AFFRONTEE, in heraldry,, an appellation given to a-,
nimals facing one another on an elcutcheon, a kind of
bearing, which is otherwife called ' confront- e, and
Hands oppofed to adojfee.
AFFUIAGE, in ancient cuftoms, denotes the right or
privilege of cutting wood in a foreft for fuel.
AFILIATION. See Affiliation..
AFOBA, in botany, an obfolete name of the phafeolus
or kidney-bean. See Phaseol.us.
AFRA avis, an obfolete name of the meleagris, or tur¬
key. See Meleagris.
Afra, or Afrum, in botany, a fynonime of a fpecies.
of guaiacum. See Guaiacum.
AFRICA, one of the four principal divifions of the
earth j.
AFT ( 36 ) r A G A
earth ; divided from Europe on the N. by the Medi¬
terranean fea.; from America on the W. by the At¬
lantic ocean ; from the countries towards the fouth-
pole, by the Great South-fea ; from the ifland of
Madagafcar in the E. by the Mozambique channel ;
and from Alla alfo on the E. by the Red-fea. It is
alfo joined to Alia by a narrow neck of land betwixt
the Mediterranean and Red-lea, called the iftkmus of
Suez : Hence Africa is a peninfula fomewhat refem-
bling a pyramid, whofe bafe from Tangier to the iflhmus
of Suez is about 2000 miles; its perpendicular, from
the vertex at the cape of Good Hope to Buria, 3600
miles; and from cape Vend, to cape Guard a Fui, it
is 3500. The fituation of this quarter on the globe
is betwixt 35. o. S. and 36. o. N. lat. and betwixt
17. 35. W. and 53. 21. E. long. Hence it lies,
for the moll part, within the tropics ; by which
. means, in many places, the heat is almolt infupporta-
ble. Along the coafts, it is in general reckoned abun¬
dantly fruitful, and its produce excellent. The Ro¬
mans very juftly conlidered Africa as the patria fe-
rarum, for there is no other place breeds the number
or the variety. In this quarter there are feveral defarts,
fome of them of vaft extent, covered with fand, by
which whole caravans have been fometimes fmothered.
The principal rivers are the Nile and the Niger, the
firft of which difembogues itfelf into the Mediterranean,
after traverfing Abyflinia, Nubia, and Egypt; and the
lad into the Atlantic ocean, by a wedern courfe from
Upper Ethiopia. Geographers are not yet agreed a-
bout the fources of either of thefe rivers ; according to
fome, their fources are not far didant from each other.
There are fome mountains in Africa remarkably high,
particularly in Abyffinia and Barbary, in which lad is
the famous mount Atlas, which feparates Barbary from
Biledulgerid. The prevailing religions here, are Ma-
hometanifm and Paganifm: Chridianity only takes
place among the Abyflinians and European fettlements.
The government in Africa is in general defpotic, and
the inhabitants black. In the divifion, geographers
have gone varioufly to work; we fhall confine our-
felves to the more general, viz. Egypt, Barbary,
Guiney, Congo, Caffraria, Abyssinia, Nu¬
bia, and Nigritia, with the iflands that furround
it; for which, fee thefe articles.
Africa, is alfo a confiderable fea-port town of Barba¬
ry, about feventy miles S. of Tunis.
Africa, Afrique, is likewife a fmall town of France,
fituated in the province of Gafcony, and generality of
Montauban.
AFRICAN company, a fociety of merchants, edabliihed
by King Charles II. for trading to Africa; which
trade is now laid open to all his majedy’s fubjefts,
paying 10 per cent, for maintaining the forts.
AFSAGERS, pcrfons appointed by the burgo-maders
of Amderdam, to prefide over the public fales made
in that city.
AFT, in the fea-language, the fame with abaft. See
. Abaft. <
AFTER-BIRTH, in midwifery. See Midwifery, and
Secundines.
AFTER-MATH, in hulbandry, fignifies thegrafs which
fprings or grows up after mowing.
AFTER-PAINS, in midwifery, pains in the groin, <bc.
after child-birth. See Midwifery, title, After-
pains.
AFTER-SWARMS, in the management of bees, are
thofe which leave the hive fome time after the fird has
fwarmed. See Apis.
AFTO, in botany. See Erysimum.
AGA, in the Turkilh language, fignifies a great lord or
commander. Hence the Aga of the janiflaries is the
commander in chief of that corps; as the general of
the horfe is denominated fpahiclar aga. See Janis¬
saries, and Spahi.
AGADES, or Agdes, a people or kingdom of Africa,
lying on the northern bank of the river Niger, betwixt
the kingdoms of Cano on the E. and Tombut on the
W. with that of Zaara on the N.
Agades, or Andegast, the capital city of the faid
kingdom.
Agades, is alfo the Mooridi name for the town of San-
ta-Cruz, in the the kingdom of Sus.
AGAG, or Argaga, a kingdom of Africa, dependent
on the kingdom of Monomotapa.
AGAI, in commerce. See Ac 1 o.
Agai, is alfo the name of a people of Ethiopia, inhabi¬
ting near the fource of the Nile, and profefling a kind
of Chridanity.
AGALLOCHA, in botany, the trivial name of the ex-
coecaria. See Excoecaria.
AGALMATA, in antiquity, a term originally ufed for
any kind of ornaments in a temple, but afterwards for
the datues only.
AGANIPPIDES, in ancient poetry, a defignation given
to the mufes, from a fountain of mount Helicon called
Aganippe.
AGAPiE, or Agapes, in church-hidory, certain love-
feads kept by the ancient Chridians, as a token of
brotherly charity and mutual benevolence.
However innocent the original intention of thefe
fedivals might have been, abufes in time got footing
in them, and gave great occafion to fcandal; fo that
it became neceflary to forbid the kifs of charity be¬
tween different fexes, as well as to have any beds or
couches in the place where they affembled.
AGAPET/E, in church-hidory, a kind of nuns among
the primitive Chridians, who attended on and ferved
the clergy.
At fird there was nothing fcandalous in thofe fo-
cieties, though they gave great offence afterwards,
and were wholly abolifhed by the council of Lateran,
in 1139.
AGARENI, a name ufed by fome writers for the A-
rabs, as being defcended from Agar, or Hagar, Abra¬
ham’s hand-maid.
AG ARICO/a^a/, in botany, a fynonime of the agari-
cus alneus,- or alder-agaric.
Agar 1 co-pylorus, a fynonime of the boletus verficolor.
See Boletus.
AGARICUS, in botany, a genus of the cryptogamia fun¬
gi. Of this genus there are 28 fpecies, 24 of which
are
AGE (3
are natives of Britain. Several fpecies of the agaric
grow upon the trunks of the larch, the oak, and other
trees. It is of a fpungy fubftance, refembling the
mufhroom, and irregular in its figure and fize. This
plant has of late been tried for Hopping haemorrhages
after amputations : but the fuccefs has not been fo re¬
markable as to bring it into general ufe.
Mineral Ackk\c, a marley earth refembling the vege¬
table of that name in colour and texture. It is found
in the fiffures of rocks, and on the roofs of caverns;
and is fometimes ufed as an aflringent in fluxes, hae¬
morrhages, tic.
AGASYLLIS, a name ufed by the Greeks for ammo¬
niac. See Ammoniac.
AGAT, is a Hone refembling the onyx in colour, but,
in place of zones, is adorned with lines or fpots of
various colours, which run into fo many figures, as
to refemble trees, flowers, fruits, herbs, tic. Of
the agat there are feveral fpecies, diftinguiihed from
each other chiefly by their colour; as, the white-
veined agat, the lead-coloured agat, the flefli-colour-
ed agat, tic.
Agat, is alfo the name of an inftrument ufed by gold-
wire-drawers, fo called from the agat in the middle of
it, which forms its principal part.
AGATA, or St Agata di Goti, a city and bifhop’s
fee of Naples, and province of Principato, fituated
almoft in the middle between Capua and Beneventum.
AGATONSI, a fmall ifland of the Archipelago, fitu¬
ated between that of Lelbos and the continent.
AGATTON, a town of Africa, on the coaft of Gui-
ney, fituated near the mouth of the river Formofa, a-
bout eighty miles fouth of Benin.
AGATY, in botany, a fynonime of the aefchynomene.
See ACschYNOMENE.
AGAVE, in botany, a genus of the hexandria mona-
gynia clafs. Under this genus Linnssus ranks 4 fpe¬
cies of the Aloes, viz. the america, vivipara, virgi-
nica, and foetida. See Aloe.
AGAZES, a name given to the inhabitants of Paraguay
in S. America.
AGDE, a fmall but well inhabited city of France, in
the province of Languedoc, near th,e mouth of the
river Eraut, about thirty miles S. W. of Montpelier.
It is the fee of a bifliop.
AGE, a certain ponion or part of duration applied to
the exigence of particular objects: thus we fay, the
age of the world, the age of Rome, tic. that is,, the
time or number of years elapfed fince the creation of
the world, or the building of Rome. See Astro¬
nomy, Of the divijion of time.
The ancient poets alfo divided the duration of the
world into four ages or periods; the firft of which
they called the golden age, the fecond the filver age,
the third the brazen age, and the fourth the iron age.
Age, in law, fignifies a certain period of life, when
perfons of both fexes are enabled to do certain ads-;
thus, a man at twelve years of age ought to take the
oath of allegiance to the king in a leet; at fourteen
he may marry, chufe his guardian, and claim his
lands held in foccage.
Vol. I.' No. 2.
7 ) AGE
Twrenty-one is called full age, a man or woman be¬
ing then capable of a ding for themfelves, of mana¬
ging their affairs, making contrads, difpofing of their,
eftates, and the like.
Age-prier, cetatem precari, inlaw, is when an adion
being brought againll a perfon under age, for lands
defcended to him, he, by motion or petition, Ihews
the matter to the court, praying the adion may be
Raid till his full age; which the court generally a-
grees to.
Age of the moon, in aflronomy, the time elapfed fince
her laft conjundion with the fun. See As tronom y.
AGEDA, in geography, a fmall town and river of Por¬
tugal, fituated in the province of Beiran, between the
cities of Oporto and Coimbra.
AGEMA, in Macedonian antiquity, was a body of fol-
diery, not unlike the Roman legion. See Legion.
AGEMOGLANS, or Agiamoglans, or Azamo-
glans, in the Turkifti cuftoms, Chriftian children
raifed every third year, by way of tribute, from the
Chriftians tolerated in the Turkilh empire.
AGEN, an ancient city of France, in the province of
Guienne, fituated on the river Garronne, about fixty
miles S. E. of Bourdeaux. It is a bifhop’s fee, and
the capital of the Agenois.
AGENDA, among philofophers and divines, fignifies
the duties which a man lies under an obligation to
perform; thus, we meet with the agenda of a Chri¬
ftian, or the duties he ought to perform, in oppofition
to the credenda, or things he is to believe.
Agenda, among merchants, a term fometimes ufed for
a memorandum book, in which is fet down all the bu-
finefs to be tranfaded during the day, either at home
or abroad.
AGENHINE, the lame with hogenhine. SeeHoGEN-
HINE,.
AGENOIS. See Agen.
AGENORIA, in mythology, the goddefs of courage
and induftry, as Vacunawas of indolence.
AGENT, in a general fenfe, denotes any adive power
or caufe. Agents are either natural or moral. Na¬
tural agents are fuch inanimate bodies as have a power
to ad upon other bodies in a certain and determinate
manner, as gravity, fire, tic. Moral agents, on the
contrary, are rational creatures, capable of regulating
their adions by a certain rule.
Agent, is alfo ufed to denote a perfon intruded with
the management of an affair, whether belonging to a
fociety, company, or private perfon.
Agents of bank and exchange, in the commercial po¬
lity of France, are much the fame with our exchange-
brokers.
Agent and patient, inlaw, is faid of a perfon who is
the doer of a thing, and alfo the party to whom it is
done.
Agents in rebus, in antiquity, fignifies officers employ¬
ed under the emperors of Conftantinople, and differ¬
ing Only in name from the frumentarii, whom they
fucceeded. See Frumentarii.
ACER, in Roman antiquity, a certain portion of land
allowed to each citizen. See Agrarian Law.
t K Acer,
3
A G H ( 38 ) A G M
Acer, is alfo ufed by middle-age writers, for an acre of
land. See Acre.
Acer mineralium, among chemifts, fignifies the element
of water, as water is fuppofed to be the origin of mi¬
nerals.
Acer naturae, a name fometimes applied to the uterus,
as it nourifhes the femen in the fame manner as the
earth nourilhes feeds.
Acer, in geography, a fmall town of Catalonia in Spain,
fituated near the fource of the river Noguera.
AGERATUM, or Maudlin, in botany, a genus of
the fyngenefia polygamia sequalis clafs. The recep¬
tacle is naked; the pappus has five ariftae or auns; the
calix is oblong; and the ftylus a little longer than the
flower. There are three fpecies of the ageratum, viz.
the conyzoides, the ciliare, and the altifimiuin, all na¬
tives of America.
AGERATUS lapis, a Hone ufed by the ancients in
dying and dreffing leather.
AGERIUM. See Agistment.
AGGA, or Agonna, a Britifh fettlement on the gold-
coafl: of Gainey. It isfituated under the meridian of
London, in 6 degrees of N. lat.
Agger, in the ancient military art, a bank or rampart,
compofed of various materials, as earth, boughs of
trees,
The agger of the ancients was of the fame nature
with what the moderns call lines.
AGGERHUYS, a city of Norway, capital of the pro¬
vince of the fame name. It is fubjeft to Denmark,
and fituated in 28. 35. E. long, and 59. 30. N. lat..
AGGIA-SARAI, a town fituated on the ihore of the
Cafpian fea, between Turkeflan and the country of
Bulgar.
AGGLUTINANTS, in pharmacy, medicines-of a glu¬
tinous or vifcid nature, given with a view to ftrengthen
the folids.
AggluTinants, among furgeons. See Vulnera-
ries.
AGGLUTINATION,- in a general fenfe,- denotes the
joining two or more things together, by means of a
a proper glue or cement.
Agglutination, among phyficians, the adherence of
new fubilance, or the giving a glutinous quality to the
animal fluids.
Agglutination, is alfo a term ufed by artrononaers
to denote the meeting of two or more ftars in the
fame part of the zodiac, or the feeming coalition of
feveral ftars.
AGGRAVATION, a term ufed to denote whatever-
heightens a crime, or renders it mere black.
AGGREGATE, in a general fenfe,, denotes the fum of
feveral things added together, or the colle&ion of them
into one whole. Thus, a houfe is an aggregate of
Rones, wood, mortar, It differs from a mixed
or compound, inafmuch as the union in thefe laft is
more intimate than between the parts of an aggregate.
See Ch em 1 str.y, Of mints.
AGGRESSOR, among lawyers, denotes the perfon
who began a quarrel, or made the firft affault.
AGHER, Acher, or Augher, » town of Ireland,
which fends two members to parliament. It is fitua¬
ted in the fouthern part of Ulfter, not far from Clo-
gher.
AGHRIM, a town of Ireland, in the county 'of Wick¬
low, and province of Leinfter, fituated about thirteen
miles fouth-weft of Wicklow.
AGIADES, in the Turkiih armies, a kind of pioneers
employed in fortifying camps, and the like offices.
AGIASMA. See Hag 1 asm a.
AGIGENSALON, a town of Turkey, upon the road
from Conftantinople to Ifpahan, .about a day’s journey
from the city of Tocia.
AGILD, or Ag.ij.de, in old law-books, denotes a per¬
fon of fo little account, that whoever killed him was
liable to no fine or other puniffiment.
AGILITY , an aptitude of the feveral parts of the bo¬
dy to motion ; or it may be defined, the art or talent
of making the beft ufe of our ftrength.
AGILLARIUS, in old law-books. See Hayward.
AGIN COURT, a village of the French Netherlands ;
famous on account of the viftory obtained by Henry V.
of England over the French, in 1415.
AGIO, in commerce, a term chiefly ufed in Holland
and at Venice, where it denotes the difference, between
the value of bank-ftock and the current coin.
Ag to of ajfurance, the fame with what we call policy
of ajfurance. See Policy of ajfurance.
AGIST. See the next article^
AGISTMENT, Agistage, or Ac 1 stati-on, inlaw,
the taking in other people’s cattle to graze at fo much
/rr week. It is alfo ufed in a metaphorical fenfe, for
any tax, burc'jn, or charge; .thus, the tax levied,for
repairing the banks-of Romney marffi was. called agi-
fiamentum.
AGISTOR, or Aoistator, an officer belonging to
forefts, who has the care of cattle taken in to he gra¬
zed, and levies the moneys due on that account.
AGISTALIA animalium in forejla, in old law-books,,
fignifies the drift of cattle or beafts in a foreft.
AGITATION, the a<ft of {baking a body, or tolling it
backwards and fbrewards.
AGITATOR, in antiquity, a term fometimes ufed for
a charioteer, efpecially thofe who drove in tire circus
at the curule games.
AGITATORS, in the Engliffi hiftory, certain officers
fet up by the army, in 1647, to take care of its in-
terefts.
Cromwell joined the agitators, only with a view to
ferve his own ends; which being once accomplithed,
he found means to get them abolilhed.
AGLA, or Aquiua, a town of Africa in the kingdom
of Fez, fituated not far from the river Guarga.
AGLAQPHOTIS, in botany, an obfolete name of .the
paeonia. See Pjeonia.
AGLECTS, Aglets, or Agleeds, in botany. See
Antherje.
AGLIA, in geography, a fortrefs of Peiclmont, with
the title of marquifate, fitaated in the Canavois.
AGMOT, or Agmet, the name of a town, diftricV
and river of Africa, in the empire of Morocco.
AGMEN, in the Roman art of war, denoted an army.
AGO (g
or rather a part of it, in march : Thus we read of the
privium agnien, or van-guard ; medium agmen, or
main body; and the pofiremum agmen, or rear-guard.
AGMONDESHAM, in geography. See Amersham.
AGNABAT, a town of Tranfylvania, fubjeft to the
houfe of Auftria, fituated about ten miles north-eaft
of Hermanftadt.
AGNANO, a lake of the kingdom of Naples, in the
province of Lavoro.
AGNANTHUS, in botany,, a fynonime of the cornu-
tia. See Cornutea.
AGNATE, in Scots law, any male relation by the fa¬
ther’s fide. See Law, title. Minors, and their,tu¬
tors and curators.
AGNEL, an ancient Trench coin, other wife, called mou-
ton d'cr. See Mouton r/V.
AGNELET, an ancient French coin, worth about twen¬
ty fols.
AGNO, a river of Naples, which, taking its rife in the
mountainous- parts of Terra di Lavoro, walhes the
town of Acerra, and, palling between Capua and A-
verfa, falls into the Mediterranean, about feven miles
N. of Puzzoli.
AGNOETAL, in church-hiflory, a fe£t of heretics, fo
called on account of their maintaining, that Chrift,
with refpeft to his human nature, was ignorant of
many things, and particularly of the day of judgment,
an opinion which they built upon the text, Mark
xiii. 32.
AGNOMEN, in Roman antiquity, a kind of fourth or
honorary name, given to a perfon on account of fome
extraordinary aftion, virtue, or other accomplilhment.
Thus, the agnomen Africanus was bellowed upon
Publius Cornelius Scipio, on account of his great at-
chievements in Africa.
AGNON, a fmall river of Bourgogne in France, other-
wife called Ignon.
AGNONE, a city of the kingdom of Naples, in.the pro¬
vince of the Hither Abruzzo, called by fome Anclone.
AGNOS, in ichthyology, an obfolete name of the ura-
nofcopus. See Urano scopus.
AGNUS, or Lam b, in zoology, the young of the ovis
or Iheep. See Ovjs.
Agnus cajlus, in botany, the trivial name of a fpecies
of the vitex. See Vite,x.
Agnus Dei, in the church of Rome, a cake qf wax
(lamped with the figure of a lamb fupporting aicrofs.
Thefe being confecrated by the nope v/ith great fo-
lemnity, an’d diftributed among the people, are fup-
•pofed to have great virtues ; as, to prefecve thofe who
carry them worthily, and with faith, from all manner
of accidents; to expel evil fpirits, &c. It is ajfo a
popular name for that part of the rnafs, where the
priell (trikes his bread thrice, and fays the prayer be¬
ginning with the words Agnus Dei.
AGNUS Scythieus, in botany, the name-pf a fnditious
plant faid to grow' in Tartary, refembling a lamb.
AGOBEL, a fmall town of Africa, in the empire of
Morocco, and province pf Hea.
AGOGA, among ancient naturalids, denoted a drain for
carrying off water from a mine.
9 ) AGO
AGOGE, among ancient muficians, a fpecies of modu¬
lation, wherein the notes proceeded by contiguous de¬
grees.
AGON, in the public games of the ancients, a term pfed
indifferently for any conteff or difpute, whether re-
fpefting bodily exercifes, or accomplifliments of the
mind. Thus;poets, muficians, Ac- had their agpnes_,
as well as the athletae. It was alfo ufed for one of
the miniders employed in the heathen facrifices, whofe
bufinefs it tvas to (Irike the vidlim.
Agon, in Roman antiquity, a place near the Tiber,
where the curule games were celebrated, otherwife
called circus Flammineus.
Agon, among phyficians. See Agony.
AGONALIS, in Roman antiquity. See Salii.
AGONALIA, in Roman antiquity, feftivals celebrated
in honour of Janus, or of the god Agpmus, whom the
Romans invoked before undertaking any affair of im¬
portance.
AGONENSES. See Salii.
AGONISMA, in antiquity, denotes the prize given to
the viftor in any combat or difpute.
AGONISTARCHA, in antiquity, the officer who di¬
rected the preparatory exercifes of the athlete ; tho’
fome make him the fame with the agonotheta. See
Agonotheta.
AGONISTICA, a term ufed to denote the fcience of
whatever belonged to the agones, or public exercifes
of the ancients.
AGONISTIC!, in church-hiftory, a name given by
Donatus to fuch of his difciples as he fent to fairs,
markets, and other public places, to propagate his
doclrine.
.AGONISTICON, a term ufed by phyficians for cold
water, as being fuppofed to combat the febrile heat.
AGONIUM, in Roman antiquity, was ufed for the day
bn which the n?* facrorutn facrificed a victim, as well
.as for the place where the games were celebrated,
.otherwife called Agon.
AGONOTHETA, or Agonothetes, in Grecian
antiquity, was the prefident or fuperintendant of the
facred games; who not only defrayed the expences
attending them, but infpeCted the manners and dif-
cipline of the athletas, and adjudged the prizes to the
victors.
AGONUS, in ichthyology, a fynonyme of the clupea
alofa. See .Clupea.
.-AGONY, any extreme pain. It is alfo ufed for the-pangis
pf death.
AGONYCLITfE, or Agonyclites, in church-hi¬
ftory, a feCt of chriftians,]in the feventh century, .who
prayed always (landing, as thinking it unlawful to
kneel.
AGOR/EUS, in heathen antiquity, an appellation given
fo fuch deities as had ftatues in the .market-places ;
particularly Mercury, whofe (latue was to be.feen in
aimed every public place.
AGORANOMUS, in Grecian antiquity, a magidrate of
Athens, who had the regulation of weights and mea-
fures, of the prices of provifions, <bc.
AGQUGE3,
A G R
AGOUGES, a river of France, which, after watering
part of Auvergne, falls into the Siole.
AGRA, a city of the Hither India, and capital of a king¬
dom of the fame name. It is fituated on the river
Jemma, and is a large, populous, and beautiful city,
where the Mogul frequently refides.
AGRAM, a city and bilhop’s fee of Hungary, fituated
near the frontiers of Carniola.
AGRARIAN laws, among the Romans, thofe relating
to the divifion and diftribution of lands; of which
there were a great number; but that called the Agra¬
rian law, by way of eminence, was publilhed by
Spurius Caflius, about the year of Rome 268, for di¬
viding the conquered lands equally among all the citizens,
and limiting the number of acres which each citizen
might enjoy.
AGRARIUM. See Agistment.
= ) A G It
AGREDA, a town of Spain, in old Caftile, near the
frontiers of Arragon, and about three leagues fouth-
weft ofTaracon.
Agreda, is alfo a town of South America, fituated at the
foot of the mountains in the kingdom of Popaian.
AGREEMENT, in law, fignifies the confent of feveral
perfons to any thing done or to be done.
AGRESSES, or Ogresses, in heraldry, a term fome-
times ufed for pellets. See Pellets.
AGRESTiE, among phyficians, denotes unripe grapes,
faid to be of a cooling nature.
AGRI, or Acri, a river of the kingdom of Naples,
which arifing in the Apennine mountains, not far from
Marfico Nuovo, falls into the gulph of Tarento.
AGRI A, a town and river of Upper Hungary. The
town is a bilhop’s fee, and fituated about thirty-five
miles N- E. of Buda.
AGRI CULTUR E.
AGRICULTURE is the art of allilHng the earth,
by means of culture, manure, fee. to bring forth
plants in greater quantity, and likewife of a larger
fize and better quality, than it would produce with¬
out thefe affiftances.
Agriculture is an art of fuch confequence to man¬
kind, that their very exiftence, efpecially in a Hate of
fociety, depends upon it. A compendious view, there¬
fore, of every material difeovery that hath hitherto
been made in this art, mull be ufeful both to the farm¬
er and philofopher.
To accomplilh this end with the greater perfpicuity,
the fubjedl (hall be divided into two parts. Under
the firft. Vegetation, and the Strufture of Plants, fliall
be confidered. The fecond will contain the various
Operations upon the Soil, in order to prepare it for the
reception and nourilhment of plants.
For the eafe of the reader, each of thefe parts lhall
be fubdivided into a number of feet ions.
PART I.
Of Vegetation, and the Structure of Plants.
? | ^ H E vegetation and oeconomy of plants is one of
thofe fubjefts in which our knowledge is extremely
circumfcribed. Many hypothefes have been invented ;
as many have been, or may eafily be, refuted. Hypo¬
thefes in matters that evidently exceed our powers do
much hurt: But they are likewife of fome ufe. They
incite to further inquiries ; and thefe inquiries are car¬
ried on with greater fpirit, becaufe they are intended for
the purpofe of confuting. It is true this fpirit is not the
mod friendly to impartial obfervation; but it makes us
more indefatigable in our refearches.
Retailing theories is no part of our plan. A total in¬
attention to the ftrufture and ceconomy of plants is the
chief reafon of the fmall progrefs that has been made in
the principles of vegetation, and of the inftability and
flufhiation of our theories concerning it.
To recall the attention of philofophers and cultivators,
to the only fource from which any folid theory can ever
be formed on this fubject, we ftiall give a Ihort deferip-
tion of the ftrmfhire of plants, beginning with the feed,
and tracing its progrefs and evolution to a date of ma¬
turity.
S if c t. I. Of Seeds.
The feeds of plants are of various figures and fizes.
Mod of them are divided into two lobes; though fome,
as thofe of the crefs-kind, have fix; and others, as the
grains of corn, are not divided, but intire.
But, as the effential properties of all feeds are the
fame, when confidered with regard to the principles of
vegetation, our particular deferiptions lhall be limited to
one feed, viz. the great garden-bean. Neither is the
choice of this feed altogether arbitrary; for, after it be¬
gins to vegetate, its parts are more confpicuous than ma¬
ny others, and confequently better calculated for invedi-
gation.
This feed is covered with, two coats or membranes.
The
■si.r/ti *a.(iuj i) % ■
Wxx
Plate IN'.
A G R I C U
The outer coat is extremely thin, and full of pores ;
but may be ealily feparated from the inner one, (which
is much thicker), after the bean has been boiled, or lain
a few days in the foil. At the thick end of the bean,
there is a fmall hole vifible to the naked eye, immediately
over the radicle or future root, that it may have a free
palfage into the foil. Plate IV. fig. i. A. When tliefe
coats are taken off, the body of the feed appears, which
is divided into two fmooth portions or lobes. The
fmoothnefs of the lobes is owing to a thin film or cuticle
with which they are covered.
At the bafts of the bean is placed the radicle or future
root, Plate IV. fig. 3. A. The trunk of the radicle,
juft as it enters into the body of the feed, divides into
two capital branches, one of which is inferred into each
lobe, and fends off fmaller ones in all directions through
the whole fubftance of the lobes, Plate IV. fig. 7. A A.
Thefe ramifications become fo extremely minute towards
the edges of the lobes, that they require the fineft glaf-
fes to render them vifible. To thefe ramifications Grew
and Malpighius have given the name of feminal root;
becaufe, by means of it, the radicle and plume, before
they are expanded, derive their principal nourifhment.
The plume, bud, or germ, Plate IV. fig. 3. is in-
clofed in two fmall correfponding cavities in each lobe.
Its colour and confiftence is much the fame with thofe
of the radicle, of which it is only a continuation; but
having a quite contrary direction: For the radicle de-
fcends into the earth, and divides into a great number
of fmaller branches or filaments ; but the plume afcends
into the open air, and unfolds itfelf into all the beautiful
variety of ftem, branches, leaves, flowers, fruit, <&c. The
plume in corn (hoots from the fmaller end of the grain,
and, among maltfters, goes by the name of acrofpire.
The next thing to be taken notice of is the fubftance,
or parenchymatous part of the lobes. This is not a. mere
concreted juice, but is curioufty organifed, and confifts
of a vaft number of fm,all bladders refembling thofe in the
pith of trees, Plate IV. fig. 4.
Befides the coats, cuticle, and parenchymatous parts,
there is a fubftance perfeftly. diftindt from thefe, diftribu-
ted in different proportions through the radicle, plume,
and lobes. This inner fubftance appears very plainly in
a tranfverfe feftion of the radicle or plume. Towards
the extremity of the radicle, it is one entire trunk ; but
higher up, it divides into three branches; the middle
one runs diredtly up to the plume, and the other two pafs
into the lobes on each fide, and fpread out into a great
variety of fmall branches through the whole body of the
lobes, Plate IV. fig. 7. This fubftance is very proper¬
ly termed the feminal root: for when the feed is fown,
the moifture is firft abforbed by the outer coats, which are
every where furnifhed with fap and air-veflels; from
thefe it is conveyed to the cuticle; from the cuticle it
proceeds to the pulpy part of the lobes; when it has got
thus far, it is taken up by the-mouths of the final!
branches of the feminal root, and paffes from one branch
into another, till it is all cohered into the main trunk,
which communicates both with the plume and radicle,
the two principal involved organs of the future plant.
After this the fap, or vegetable food, runs in two oppo-
Vol. I. N0.-2. 3
L T U R E. 41
fite direffions ; part of it afcends into the plume, and pro¬
motes the growth and expanfion of that organ ; and part
of it defcends into the radicle, for nouriihing and evol¬
ving the' root audits various filaments. Thus the plume
and radicle continue their progrefs in oppofite dircdtions,
till the plant arrives at maturity.
It is here worth remarking, that every plant is really
poflefled of two roots, both of which are contained in the
Feed. The plume and radicle, when the feed is firft
depofited in the earth, derive their nouriihment from the
feminal root: but, afterwards, when the radicle begins to
(hoot out its filaments, and to abforb fome moifture, nor,
however, in a fufficient quantity to fupply the exigencies
of the plume, the two lobes, or main body of the feed,
rife along with the plume, a(fume the appearance of two
leaves, refembling the lobes of the (eed in fize and
(hape, but having no refernblance to thofe of the plume,
for which reafon they have got the name of dijfimilar
leaves.
Thefe diflimilar leaves defend the young plume from
the injuries of the weather, and at the fame time, by
abforbing dew, air, <bc. aflift the tender radicle in non-
riihing the plume, with which they have dill a connec¬
tion by means of the feminal root above defcribed. But,
when the radicle or fecond root has defcended deep e-
nough into the earth, and has acquired a fuflicient num¬
ber of filaments or branches for abforbing as much ali¬
ment as is proper for the growth of the plume; then the
feminal, or diflimilar leaves, their utility being entirely
fuperfeded, begin to decay and fall off.
Plate IV. Fig. r. A, The foramen, or hole in the
bean th-rough which the radicle
(hoots into the foil.
Fig. 2. A tranfverfe fedtion of the bean ;
the dotes being the branches
of the feminal root.
Fig. 3. A, The radicle.
B, The plume or bud.
Fig. 4. A, A longitudinal fedtion of one
of the lobes of the bean a lit¬
tle magnified, to (how the fmall
bladders of which the pulpy
or parenchymatous part is com-
pofed.
Fig. 5, 6. A, A tranfverfe fedtion of the
radicle.
B, A tranfverfe fedlion of the
plume, (bowing the organs or
veffels of the ieminal root.
Fig. 7. A, A view of the feminal root
branched out upon the lobes;
Fig. 8. The appearance of the radicle,
plume, and feminal root, when
a little further advanced in
growth.
Having thus briefly defcribed the feed, and traced its
evolution into three principal organic parts, viz. the
plume, radicle, and feminal leaves, we (Itall next take an
anatomical view of the root, trunk, leaves, <bc..
f L Sect.
42
A G R I C
U
S e c t. II. Of the Root.
In examining the root of plants, the firft thing that
prefents itfelf is the fltin, which is of various colours in
different plants. Every root, after it has arrived at a
-certain age, has a double Ikin. The firft is coeval with
the other parts, and exifts in the feed : but afterwards
there is a ring fent off from the bark, and forms a fe-
.eond Ikin; e.g. in the root of the dandelion, towards
the end of May, the original or outer Ikin appears ftiri-
veled, and is eafily feparated from the new one, which
is frefher, and adheres more firmly to the bark. Peren¬
nial plants are fupplied in this manner with a new (kin
every year; the outer one always falls off in the autumn
or winter, and a new one is formed from the bark in
the fucceeding . fpring. The fkin has numerous cells
or veffels,. and is a continuation of the parenchymatous
part of the radicle. However, it does not confift folely
of parenchyma; for the microfcope fhews that there are
many tubular lignous veffels interfperfed through it.
When the fkin is removed, the true cortical fubftance
or bark appears, which, is alfo a continuation of the pa¬
renchymatous part of the radicle, but greatly augment¬
ed. The bark is of very different fizes. In moft trees,
it is exceeding thin in proportion to the wood and pith.
On the other hand, in carrots, it is almoft one half of the
femidiameter of the root; and, in dandelion, it is near¬
ly twice as thick as the woody part.
I. The Bark is compofed of two fubftances ; the pa¬
renchyma, or pulp, which is the principal part; and a few
woody fibres. The parenchyma is exceedingly porous,
and has a great refemblance to a fpunge; for .it fhrivels
confiderably when dried, and dilates to its former dimem
ficus when infufed in water. Thefe pores or veffels are
not pervious fo as to communicate with each other, but
confift of diftincl little cells or bladders, fcarcely vifible
without the affiftance of the microfcope. In all roots, thefe
cells are conftantly filled with a thin watery liquor. They
are generally of a fpherical figure; though in fome roots,
as the buglofs and dandelion, they are oblong. In many
roots, as the horfe-raddilh, peony, afparagus, potatoe,
the parenchyma is of one uniform ftrudture. But in o-
thers it is more diverfified, and puts on the fhape of rays
running from the centre towards the circumference of
the bark. Thefe rays fometimes run quite through the
bark, as in lovage ; and fometimes advance towards the
middle of it, as in melilot and moft of the leguminous and
umbelliferous plants. Thefe rays generally ftand at an
equal diftance from each other in the fame plant; but
the diftance varies greatly in different plants. Neither are
they of equal fizes: In carrot they are exceedingly fmall,
and fcarcely difcernible ; in melilot and cherval, they
are thicker. They are likev/ife more numerous in fome
plants than in others. Sometimes they are of the fame
thicknefs from one edge of the bark to the other; and
fome grow wider as they approach towards the fkin. The
veffels with which thefe rays are amply furnifhed, are
fuppofed to be air-veffels, becaufe they are always found
to be dry, and not fo tranfparent as the veffels which e-
vidently contain the fap.
' L T U R E.
In all roots, there are lignous veffels difperfed in dif¬
ferent proportions through the parenchyma of the bark.
Thefe lignous veflels run longitudinally through the
hark in the form of fmall threads, which are tubular, as
is evident from the rifing of the fap in them when a root
is cut tranfverfely. Thefe lignous fap-veflels do not run
in diredt lines through the bark, but, at fmall diftances,
incline towards one another in fuch a manner, that they
appear to the naked eye to be inofculated; but the mi¬
crofcope difcovers them to be only contiguous, and bra¬
ced together by the parenchyma. Thefe braces or co-
anftations are very various both in fize and number in
different roots; but in all plants they are moft nume¬
rous towards the inner edge of the bark. Neither are
thefe veffels fingle tubes, but, like the nerves in animals,
are bundles of twenty or thirty fmall contiguous cylin¬
drical tubes, which uniformly run from the extremity
of the root, without fending off any branches, or fuf-
fering any change in their fize or fhape.
In fome roots, as parfnip, efpecially in the ring next
the inner extremity of the bark, thefe veffels contain a
kind of lymph, which is fweeter than the fap contained
in the bladders of the parenchyma. From this circunr-
llance they have got the name of lymph-dufls.
Thefe lymph-dudts fometimes yield a mucilaginous
lymph, as in the comphrey; and fometimes a white milky
glutinous lymph, as in the angelica, fonchus, burdock,
fcorzonera, dandelion, <bc. The lymph-duds are fup¬
pofed to be the veffels from which the gums and bal-
fams are fecerned. The lymph of fennil, when expofed
to the air, turns into a clear tranfparent balfam; and
that of the fcorzonera, dandelion, <b.c, condenfes into a
gum.
, The fituation of the veffels is various. In fome plants,
they ftand in a ring or circle at the inner edge of the
bark, as in afparagus; in others, they appear in lines,
or rays, as in borage; in the parfnip, and feveral other
plants, they are moft confpicuous toward the outer edge
of the bark; and in the dandelion, they are difpofed
in the form of concentric circles.
2. The Wood of roots is that part which appears
after the bark is taken off, and is firmer and lefs porous
th.»i the bark or pith. It confifts of two diftind fub¬
ftances, viz. the pulpy, or parenchymatous, and the
lignous. The wood is conneded to the bark by large
portions of the bark inferted into it. Thefe infertions
are moftly in the form of rays, tending to the centre of
the pith, which are eafily difcernible by the eye in a tranf-
verfe fedion of moft roots. Thefe infertions, like the
bark, confift of many veffels, moftly of a round or oval
figure.
The lignous veffels are generally difpofed in collateral
rows running longitudinally through the root. Some of
thefe contain air, and others fap. The air-veffels are fo
called, becaufe they contain no liquor. Thefe air-vef¬
fels are diftinguifhed by being whiter than the others.
3. The Pith is the centrical part of the root. Some
roots have no pith, as the ftramonium, nicotiana, 6r.
others have little or none at the extremities of the roots,
but have a confiderable quantity of it near the top.
The pith, like every other part of a plant, is derived
from
■
■
Plate V.
A G R I C U
from the feed: But in fome it is more immediately deri¬
ved from the bark. For the infertions of the bark run¬
ning in betwixt the rays of the wood, meet in the centre,
and conftitute the pith. It is owing to this circumftance,
that among roots which have no pith in their lower
parts, they are amply provided with it towards the top,
as in columbine, lovage, <bc.
The bladders of the pith are of very different fizes,
and generally of a circular figure. Their pofition is
more uniform than in the bark. Their fides are not
mere films, but a compofition of fmall fibres or threads;
which gives the pith, when viewed with a microfcope,
the appearance of a piece of fine gauze, or net-work.
We fhall conclude the defeription of roots, with ob-
ferving, that their whole fubftance is nothing but a con¬
geries of tubes and fibres, adapted by nature for the ab-
forption of nourifhment, and of courfe the extension and
augmentation of their parts.
Plate IV. Fig. 9. A tranfverfe feftion of the root
of wormwood, as it appears
to the naked eye. •
Fig. 10. A feftion of fig. 9. magnified.
A A, The Ikin, with itsveffels.
B B B B, The bark. The round
holes, C C C, 6t'. are the
lymph-duefs of the bark.
All the other holes are lit¬
tle cells and fap-veffels.
D D D, Parenchymatous infer¬
tions from the bark, with
the Cells,
E E E E, The rays of the wood,
in which the holes are the
air-veffels.
jV. B. This root has no pith.
Sect. III. Of the Trunks Stalky or Stem.
In deferibing the trunks of plants, it is neceffary to
premife, that whatever is faid with regard to them, ap¬
plies equally to the branches,
The trunk, like the root, confifls of three parts, viz.
the bark, wood, and pith. Thefe parts, though fub-
ftantially the fame in; the trunk as in the root, are in
many cafes very different in their texture and appearance.
1. The fkin of the bark is compofed of very minute
bladders, interfperfed with longitudinal woody fibres, as
in the nettle, thiftle, andmoft herbs. The outfide of the
fit in is vifibly porous in fome plants, particularly the cane.
The principal body of the bark is compofed of pulp
or parenchyma, and innumerable veffels much larger than
thofe of the fkin. T'ke texture of the pulpy part, tho’
the fame fubftance with the parenchyma in roots, yet fel-
dam appears in the form of rays running. towards the
pith ; and when thefe rays do appear, they do not ex¬
tend above half way to the circumference. The veffels
of the bark are very differently fituated, and deftined for
various purpofes in different plants. For example, in the
bark of the Pine, the inmoft are lymph-dufts, and ex¬
ceedingly fmallj the outmoft are gum or refiniferous vef-
L T U R E. 43
fels, deftined for the fecretion of turpentine ; and are fo
large, as to be difthuftly vifible to the naked eye.
2. The Wood lies betwixt the bark and pith, and
confifts of two parts, viz. a parenchymatous, and lig-
nous. In all trees, the parenchymatous part of the wood,
though much diverfified as to fize and confiftence, is uni¬
formly difpofed in diametrical rays, or infertions running
betwixt fimilar rays of the ligndus part.
The true wood is nothing but a congeries of old dried
lymph-duds. Between the bark and the wood a new
ring-of thefe duds is formed every year, which gradually
loofes its foftnefs as the cold feafon approaches, and, to¬
wards the middle of winter, is condenfed into a folid
ring of wood. Thefe annual rings, which are diftindly
vifible in moft trees when cut through,' ferve as natural
marks to diftinguifh their age. Plate V. fig. 1, 2.
The rings of one year are fometimes larger, fometimes
lefs, than thofe of another, probably owing to the favour-
ablenefs or unfavourablenefs of the feafon.
3. The Pith, though of a different texture, is ex-
adly of the fame fubftance with the parenchyma of the
bark, and the infertions of the wood. The quantity of
pith is various in different plants. Inftead of being in-
creafed every year like the wood, it is annually dimi-
nifhed, its veffels drying up, and affuming the appearance
and ftrudure of wood; in fo much that in old trees there
is fcarce fuch a thing as pith to be difeerned.
A ring of fap-veffels are ufually placed at the outer
edge of the pith, next the wood. In the pine, fig, and
walnut, they are very large. The parenchyma of the
pith, is compofed of fmall cells or bladders, of the fame
kind with thofe of the bark, only of a larger fize. The
general figure of thefe bladders is circular; though in
fome plants, as the thiftle, and borage, they are angular.
Though the pith is originally one connected chain of
bladders ; yet as the plant grows old, they fhrivel, and
open in different directions. In the walnut, after a cer*
tain age, it appears in the form of a regular tranfverfe
hollow divifion. In fome plants, it is altogether wantj-
ing; in others, as the fonchus, nettle, <&c. there is only
a tranfverfe partition of it at every joint. Many other
varieties might be mentioned; but thefe muft be left to
the obfervation of the reader.
Plate V. Fig. 1.. A tranfverfe fedtiqn of a.
branch of afh, as it appears
to the eye.
Fig. 2. The fame fefhon magnified.
A A, The bark.
B B B, An arched ring of fap-
veffels next the fkin.
C C C, The parenchyma of the
bark with its cells, and ano¬
ther arched ring of fap-vef¬
fels.
D -D, A circular line of lymph-
duffs immediately below the
above arched ring.
E E, The wood.
F, The firft year’s growth.
G, The fecond.
H, The
44 A G R I C
Plate V. Fig. 2. H, The third year’s growth.
Ill, The true wood,
K K, The great air vefTels.
L L, The Idler ones.
M M M, The parenchymatous
infertions of the bark repre-
fented by the white rays.
N, O, The pith, with its blad¬
ders or cells.
U L T U R E.
perly fpeaking, the flowers of this year, but of the laft.
For example, mezereon generally flowers in January;
but thefe flowers were completely formed in the month
of Augufl proceeding. Of this fad any one may fatis-
fy himfelf by feparating the coats of a tulip root about
the beginning of September; and he will And that the
two innermoft form a kind of cell, in the centre of
which Hands the young flower, which is not to make its
appearance till the following April or May.
Sect. IV. Of the Leaves.
The leaves of plants confifl: of the fame fubftance with
that of the trunk. They are full of nerves, or woody
portions, running in all directions, and branching out in¬
to innumerable {'mail threads, interwoven with the Pa¬
renchyma like fine lace or gauze.
The flcin of the leaf, like that of an animal, is full of
pores, which both ferve for perfpiration, and for the
abforption of dews, air, <bc. Thefe pores, or orifices,
differ both in fhape and magnitude in different plants,
which is the caufe of that variety of texture or grain pe¬
culiar to every plant.
The pulpy or parenchymatous part, confifts of very
minute fibres, wound up into fmall cells or bladders.
Thefe cells are of various fizes in the fame leaf.
All leaves, of whatever figure, have a marginal fibre,
by which all the reft are bounded. The particular
fhape of this fibre determines the figure of the leaf.
The yeflels of leaves have the appearance of inofcula-
ting; but, when examined by the microfcope, they are
found only to be interwoven, or laid along each other.
What is called air-veffels, or thofe which carry no
fap, are vifible even to the naked eye in fome leaves.
When a leaf is flowly broke, they appear like fmall
woolly fibres, connected ,to both ends of the broken
piece.
Plate VI. Fig. 1. The appearance of the air-vef¬
fels to the eye, in a vine leaf
drawn gently afunder.
Fig 2. A fmall piece cut off that leaf.
Fig. 3. The fame piece magnified, in
which the veffels have the
appearance of a fcrew.
Fig. 4. The appearance of thefe veffels
as they exift in the leaf be¬
fore they are ftretched out.
Sect. V. Of the Flower.
It is needlefs here to mention any thing of the tex¬
ture, or of the veffels, fcc. of flowers, as they are pret¬
ty fimilar to thofe of the leaf. It would alfo be foreign
to our prefent purpofe, to take any notice of the charac¬
ters and diftindtions of flowers^ Thefe belong to the
fcience of Botany, to which the reader is referred.
There is one curious fadl, however, which muft not
be omitted, viz. That every flower is perfectly formed in
all its parts many months before it appears outwardly ;
that is, the flowers which appear this year, are not, pro-
Plate VI. Fig. 5. Exhibits a view of the tulip-root
when differed in September,
with the young flower towards
the bottom.
S e c t. VI. Of the Fruit.
In defcribing the ftrudture of fruits, a few exam¬
ples ftiall be taken from fuch as are moft generally
known.
1. A Pear, befides the Hein, which is a production
of the fkin of the bark, confifts of a double parenchyma
or pulp, fap, and air-veffels, calculary, and acetary.
The outer parenchyma is the fame fubftance continued
from the bark, only its bladders are larger and more fuc-
culent.
It is every where interfperfed with fmall globules or
grains, and the bladders refpedt thefe grains as a kind
of centres, every grain being the centre of a number of
bladders. The fap and air-veffels in this pulp are ex¬
tremely fmall.
Next the core is the inner pulp or parenchyma, which
confifts of bladders of the fame kind with the outer, only
larger and more oblong, correfponding to thofe of the
pulp, from which it feems to be derived. This inner
pulp is much fburer than the other, and has none of the
fmall grains interfperfed through it; and hence it has
got the name of acetary^
Between the acetary and outer pulp, the globules or
grains begin to grow larger, and gradually unite into a
hard ftony body, efpecially towards thecorculum, or ftooi
of the fruit; and from this circumftance it has been cal¬
led the calculary.
Thefe grains are not derived from any of the organi-
cal parts of the tree, but feem rather to be a kind of
concretions precipitated from the fap, fimilar to the pre¬
cipitations from wine, urine, and other liquors.
The core is a roundifti cavity in the centre of the
pear, lined with a hard woody membrane, in which the
feed is inclofed. At the bottom of the core there is a
fmall dudt or canal, which runs up to the top of the
pear; this'canal allows the air to get into the core, for
the purpofe of drying and ripening the feeds. ,
Plate VII. Fig. 1. A tranfverfe feftion of a pear,
as it appears to the naked
eye.
A, 'The flcin, and a ring of fap-
veffels
B, The outer parenchyma, or
pulp.
Plate VI.
>- 5 •
Tlaf e Til
AGRICULTURE.
pulp, with its ve/Tels, and
lignous fibres interfperfed.
Plate VII. Fig.i, C, The inner parenchyma, or ace-
tary, with its vefl’els, which
are larger than the outer one.
D, The core and feeds.
Fig. 2. A piece cut off fig. i.
Fig. 3. Is fig. 2. magnified.
A A A, The fmall grains or globules
with the veflels radiated from
them.
Fig. 4. A longitudinal fe<flion of the pear,
filewing a different view of the
fame parts with thofe of fig. 1.
A, The channel, or duft, which
runs from the top of the pear
to the bottom of the core.
2. In a Lemon, the parenchyma appears in three dif¬
ferent forms. The parenchyma of the rind is of a coarfe
texture, being compofed of thick fibres, woven into large
bladders. Thofe neareft the furface contain the eflential
oil of the fruit, which burlts into a flame when the fldn
is fqueezed over a candle. From this outmoft parenchy¬
ma nine or ten infertions or lamellse are produced, which
run between as many portions of the pulp, and unite in¬
to one body in the centre of the fruit, which correfponds
to the pith in trunks or roots. At the bottom and top
of the lemon, this pith evidently joins with the rind,
without the intervention of any lamellae. This circum-
ftance /hows, that the pith and bark are actually con¬
nected in the trunk and roots of plants, though it is dif¬
ficult to demonftrate the connexion, on account of the
clofenefs of their texture, and the minutenefs of their
fibres. Many veflels are difperfed through the whole of
this parenchyma; but the largeft ones ftand on the inner
edge of the rind, and the outer edge of the pith, juft at
the two extremities of each lamella.
The fecond kind of parenchyma is placed between
the rind and the pith, is divided into diftind bodies
by the lamellae ; and each of thefe bodies forms a large
bag.
Thefe bags contain a third parenchyma, which is a
clufter of fmaller bags, diftindt and unconnected with
each other, having a fmall ftalk by which they are fixed
to the large bag. Within each of thefe fmall bags are
many hundreds of bladders, compofed of extremely mi¬
nute fibres. Thefe bladders contain the acid juice of
the lemon.
From this fhort fketch of the ftruChire and compofi-
tion of vegetables, both the farmer and philofopher may
draw very ufeful and important conclufions. Some of
them will perhaps be taken notice of in the courfe of this
treatife.
PlateV. Fig. 3. A longitudinal feCtion of a le-
A A A, The rind with the vef-
fels that contain the eflential
oil.
B B, The fubftance correfpond-
Vol. I. No. 2. 3
ing to the pith, formed by the
union of the lamella;, or infer¬
tions.
Plate V. Fig. 3. C C, Its continuation and con¬
nection with the rind, inde¬
pendent of the infertions.
Fig. 4. A tranfverfe feCtion of the lemon.
B B B, lire. The nine pulpy bags,
or fecond parenchyma, placed
between the rind and the pith j
and the clufter of fmall bags,
which contain the acid juice,
inclofed in the large ones.
C C, The large veflels that fur-
round the pith.
D D, Two of the large bags laid
open, ftiewing the feeds, and
their connection with the la¬
mella: or membranes which
form the large bags.
Sect. VII. 0/ the nature and motion of the
Sap.
The veflels in the roots of plants abforb moifture from
the earth, and convey it to the trunk, branches, leaves,
ifc. This juice, when it firft enters into the root, is
crude ; but as it afeends into the other parts of the plant,
it undergoes feveral changes, by means of the different
configurations of the veflels peculiar to each part. Thus
the leaves, flowers, fruit, and feed, have all fomething
peculiar in the ftru&ure and arrangement of their veflels,
which produces confiderable changes in the nature of the
fap. It is not known how thefe changes are produced:
but how the ftomachs of animals make chyle from ani¬
mal and vegetable fubftances, or how urine, faliva, bile,
ic. is fecreted from the common mafs of blood, is as
little known. The fap likewife moves in a lateral or ho¬
rizontal direction.
Philofophers are greatly divided about what they call
the circulation of the fap. Some contend, that it re¬
turns to the root betwixt the bark and wood. But Hales,
who has made many accurate experiments on the fubjeCt,
has fhown, that it does not circulate, but afeends and
defeends in the fame veflels ; that it afeends in hot wea¬
ther, and defeends in cold, like the fpirits in a thermo¬
meter.
Vegetables begin to abforb fap about the beginning of
Spring, and foon after fhoot out their buds, leaves, and
flowers.
When plants are in a ftate of vegetation, efpecially in
hot weather, there is a great deal of fuperfluous fap ab-
forbed; but the fuperfluous parts are carried off by tran-
fpiration. Every part of a plant tranfpires; but the
greateft quantity pafles by the leaves.
Some have afligned the tranfpiration of plants, as the
caufe of the motion of the fap. It is undoubtedly one
caufe of this motion; becaufe, if the tranfpiration be
flopped, at a time when all the veflels are full, the mo¬
tion of the fap muft flop of courfe. But then there is a
previous and principal caufe, viz. that power in the vef-
t M fels.
46 A G R I C U
fels, whatever it is, that firfl: puts the fap in motion, be¬
fore any tranfpiration has commenced.
Heat, moifture, and air, are the three chief circum-
ftances that promote the afcent of the fap. Hence no¬
thing is more favourable to vegetation than warm weather
accompanied with rain: on the other hand, cold dry
weather is its greatefl: enemy. In a wet, cold feafon,
every thing rots; and in hot dry weather every thing is
parched. But the circumftances moft favourable to ve¬
getation are cloudy, hot weather, inclinable to thunder,
fucceededby plentiful rains.
Sect. VIII. Of the Food of Plants.
It is thought to be an important queftion in agriculture,
whether the feveral kinds of plants require the fame, or
different nourilhment.
Upon a fuperficial view of this queftion, it would appear
very improbable, that the fame matter could nourifh fuch
a variety of plants, differing fo effentially in fmell, tafte,
figure, &c. Much, however, may depend upon the in¬
ternal ftrudure and arrangement of the velfels. One
thing is certain, that if the veffels in any plant be un¬
commonly fmall, parts will be rejefted by that plant
which would be abforbed by one whofe veffels are larger.
Nay, changes may be made in the crude homogeneous
nourifhment, by a fmall difference in the figure or action
of the veffels.
It is given out as a faft, by writers on this fubjedt,
that one plant will ftarve another, by robbing it of its
nourifhment. This does not feem to affedt either fide of
the queftion; for it may ftarve its neighbour, either by
extending its roots, and requiring a greater quantity of
nourifhment than the other; or it may abforb the pecu¬
liar food which is neceffary for the growth of the other
plant. In either cafe, the plant is deprived of a proper
quantity of nourifhment.
It is likewife propofed as a difficulty, Why a poifonous
plant and its antidote will grow in the fame foil, and very
near each other. This argument is of the fame nature
with the former. It may be owing either to thefe plants
imbibing different juices from the earth, or to peculiari¬
ties in the ftrudhrre and adtion of their veffels. Thefe,
and many other ambiguous fadts, have been advanced on
both Tides of this queftion, which we fhall not fpend time
in enumerating.
The argument drawn from grafted plants, feems more
direct and decifive. A ftalk of a lemon, grafted on a
branch of an orange-tree, grew, ripened its fruit, and
^rcferved the figure and all the other qualities belong-
}{lg to a lemon. Tnis plainly indicates, that the or¬
ganization of the lemon had given a different modifica¬
tion to the juices of the orange, through the interven¬
tion of which it received its nourifhment.
It is alfo certain, that the different parts of the fame
L T U R E.
plant have frequently various fmells, taftes, <&c. although
the nourifhment derived from the root mull be the fame.
This is an evidence, that the different ftrudhire of parts
in the fame plants is capable of producing very fenfible
changes in the nature and quality of the fap.
Repeated experiments fhow, that many plants of very
oppofite qualities, and even trees, have been nburifhed
and brougjit to maturity by the pureft water alone.
It is obferved, on the other hand, that different plants
require different foils. This is certainly true: But what
then ? Does not this difference in foil rather depend up¬
on the greater or leffer quantity, than any peculiar qua¬
lity in the food ? Thyme grows beft in a dry foil; but
it will grow equally well in earth carried from a marfh
to the top of a mountain.
The roots of plants are fitted to abforb every fluid that
comes within their reach. They have been found by
experiment to imbibe fluids that adtually poifon them.
From this circumftance it may be fairly concluded, that
they have not, like animals, the fagacity of chufing the
food that is moft proper for nourifhing them, and reje(5t-
ing that which is either noxious or lefs nourifhing.
Mr Dickfon, author of an excellent treatife on agri¬
culture, publifhed in 1765, has endeavoured to fix the
particular ingredients that enter into the compofition of
the food of vegetables. He contends, that neither earth,
water, air, oil, nor fait, can be called the food of plants ;
but he thinks that it confifts of a combination of all thefe
fubrtances. His arguments in fupport of this theory are
chiefly drawn from the chemical analyfis, v/hich fhows,
that all thefe fubftances may be extorted from vegetables
by the force of fire; and from a confideration that a due
admixture of thefe fubftances (or fuch things as con¬
tain them) is favourable, and even neceffary, to vegeta-
His laft argument is good: But whoever attempts to
difcover the properties of plants, or the ingredients of
their food, from a chemical analyfis, will probably never
do much fervice to the fcience of agriculture. Fire and
a retort is capable of torturing either animals or vege¬
tables into forms and qualities which never exifted either
in thefe bodies, or in their food.
We Ihall conclude this fedtion with obferving, that the
farmer, in nouriffiing his plants, ffiould be directed entire¬
ly by experience. If he knows, that putrid animal
and vegetable fubftances, that lime, foot, marie, &c.
when applied with judgment, affift the growth of his
plants, and augment his crop, it is of little confequence
whether he be acquainted with their chemical analyfis,
or the particular mode of their operation. We do net
mean that he ffiould continue obftinately in the old beat¬
en track, as it is called; but rathqr that he ffiould try
whether he can by any means improve upon the old
method, and that his practice ffiould be diredted accord¬
ing to the fuccefs of thefe trials.
PART
AGRICULTURE. 47
PART II.
Of the various Operations upon the Soil, in order to prepare it for the Recep*
tion and Nourifoment of Plants.
S e c t. I. Of Manures.
'P’Very fubftance which promotes the growth of plants
is denominated a manure.
As to the operation of manures, fome maintain, that
they give to the earth an additional quantity of the vege¬
table food; others, that they are of no other ufe than
to divide the foil, and therefore that tillage may be fub-
ftituted in their place. This laft opinion was embraced
by Mr Tull, and is the fundamental principle in his
horfe-hoeing hulbandry. A minute divilion of the foil
will do a great deal; but the experience of all ages
Ihows that it will do much more by the addition of ma¬
nure.
In Scotland, it is the univerfal practice to dung lands,
that are in conftant tillage, at lealt once in five years ;
and it eonfifts with obfervation, that the ground is con-
liderably enriched the firft year, but that the crops gra¬
dually decline till the virtues of the dung are entirely ex-
haufted. 1
Some manures lofe their virtue by being long expofed
to the air. If dung be kept after it is fufficiently rotted,
the moft valuable part of it will evaporate. Others, as
lime and marles, are of an oppofite nature: the longer
they are expofed to the air, their utility to the land is
improved. From this circumftance it is probable, that
marles and lime attraft fomething from the air which ren¬
ders them more favourable to vegetation.
There is a great variety of fubitances which, when
laid upon land, aft as manures. But the moft ufual ma¬
nures in this country are dung, lime, marles, afties, foot,
fea-weed, {hells, &c.
Of Dung.
Dung is properly the excrement of animals ; but what
commonly goes by that name, is a mixture of excre¬
ments, putrefied vegetable and animal fubftances. If
dunghills be kept after they are fufficiently rotted, the
oily and more volatile parts, which are the beft ingre¬
dients, fly off. They ftiould likewife be placed in a
dry fituation, and raifed high at the fides, to prevent
thefe parts from being carried off by water ; for much
water prevents the uniform putrefaction of dunghills of
this mixed kind.
To promote a proper putrefaftion, the dung fliould
not be laid in fmall heaps, but fpread thick upon the dung¬
hill ; for by this means the fermentation commences foon-
t^le natural fap is preferved, and the dung is prevent¬
ed from being burnt, or fire-fanged, as it is termed by
farmers. Dung, when burnt in this manner, is dry,
white, and ufelefs as a manure. It is agreed, that dung¬
hills ought to be covered, to prevent the exhalation of
vegetable food. But the difficulty is, how to execute it.
Some propofe a thin layer of earth for this purpofe;
others, that a pit ftiould be dug, built with flags at the
fide, and covered with a roof. The former would an-
fwer very well, were it not for the additions that are
conftantly making to dunghills; and the latter is fo
expenfive, that few people will chufe to make trial of
it. When dung comes from the liable or byre, it is mixed
with ftraw; which abforbs the moifture, and prevents it
from exhaling till the ftraw itfelf putrefies. When in
this fituation, if it be laid thick upon the top' of the
dunghill, there being but a fmall furface expofed to the
air, the juices will be tolerably well preferved.
As dung thus lofes its beft qualities by being expofed
to the fun and weather, it ought to be plowed in as foon
as poflible, after being laid upon land. If fufficicntly
putrefied, it ftiould be plowed in with a (hallow furrow,
as its juices are walhed down by the rain : It ftiould like¬
wife be fpread very equally; for when large pieces lie
fcattered up and down, they become a nidus to infefts
and vermin.
Of Lime.
Lime being of an alkaline nature, attrafts acids:
Hence it is fuppofed to communicate to the foil a power
of attrafting the vegetable food from the air. Lime
is a heavy fubftance, and penetrates deep into the foil;
it fometimes even finks below the reach of the plow.
By fermenting with acids, it breaks down and divides
the foil into fmall particles, and makes it foft, mellow,
and evidently in a ftate of fermentation. It likewife dif-
folves oils, and all animal and vegetable fubftances, and
converts them into vegetable food. This quality rea¬
ders it peculiarly ufeful in dellroying root-weeds.
Thefc being the general properties of lime, it is fup¬
pofed to have a twofold operation upon land. When a
large quantity is ufed, efpecially after being long expo-
fed to the air, it promotes vegetation by giving a kind of
ftimulus to the foil, and making it exert itfelf. This
operation of lime is not merely hypothetical; for expe¬
rience (hews, that land thoroughly limed may be reduced
to a poorer condition by cropping, than if it had not
been limed at all. It is even poftible to reduce limed
land to & caput ntortuum; and the more frequently and
the better the land is plowed, it is the fooner reduced
to this ftate.
Lime alfo enriches land, by augmenting the vegetable
aliment. When intended for this purpofe, only a fmall
quantity fliould be employed; as a fmall quantity of
lime is lufficient to impregnate a large quantity ©f earth,
and
43 A G R I C U
and to communicate to it as high a degree of an abforb-
ing quality as it is capable of receiving.
Thefe different operations of lime is confirmed by
experience, and agreeable to the praftice in thofe parts of
Scotland where lime is moft ufed. When employed for
the purpofe of improving barren lands, it is laid on in
large quantities, to give a ftimulus to the foil, and make
it exert all its vigour; and when applied to land already
improved, it is ufed in fmall quantities, and repeated
once every third or fourth year, to prevent too great
an exertion, and impovefifhing the land, by exhauft-
ing too much of the vegetable food.
The lands in Scotland capable of the greatefi: im¬
provement by lime, are the out-field and muir lands.
The out-field land is generally kept three years in tillage,
and carries three crops of oats ; it is then allowed to
reft fix years, and after that is brought again into tillage.
This method of cultivating out-field land is found, by
calculation, to be fufficiently able to bear the expence,
and allow a reafonable profit to the farmer, befides the
improvement the lands derive from the lime.
In England, lime is fometimes ufed as a top dreffing
for wheat. The method is this: They fow their wheat
without laying on any manure ; and in the beginning of
February, for every acre of land, they take 20 bufhels of
unflaked lime, and 4 bufhels of fand, or brick-rubbifh.
Towards the end of the month, the lime is flaked and
mixed with the fand: In the laft week of the month, this
js fcattered by way of top-drefling over the green wheat;
and as rain generally fucceeds, it is foon waftied down
to the roots of the plant, and gives them a vigour and
ftrength of growth that is aftonifhing to people who have
never feen this method pratftifed. But, if the weather
inclines to be dry, the quantity of fand muft be doubled,
to prevent the plants from being burnt by the corrofive
quality of the lime.
Of Maries.
The general characters by which marie is beft. diftin-
guifhed, are thefe : It attracts and ferments with acids,
and does not bake in the fire like potter’s earth, which
diftinguiflies it fufficiently from clay; upon being expo-
fed for fome time to the air and weather, it diflblves like
quick-lime, and falls into a fine powder; when dry, it
is friable and unCtuous like lead-ore; when wet, it is
foft and flippery to the touch; whereas virgin-earth
is rough and gritty.
There are a great variety of marks; but they are
generally reduced to three kinds: The clay, the ftone,
and the Ihell marie.
The clay and ftone marks are nearly of the fame na¬
ture ; but the ffiell-mark differs from both.
Of Clay and Stone Maries.
Though plants will not grow in thefe marks, when
pure; yet, when mixed with foil, they become an excel¬
lent manure.
Stone and clay marks are pofleffed of much the fame
qualities with lime, and confequently aCt nearly in the
L T U R E.
fame manner upon the foil. They communicate to the
foil a power of attracting the vegetable food from the
air, diifolve the vegetable food, and prepare it for en¬
tering the roots of plants. They likewife attract oils
fo ftrongly, that they are frequently ufed for extracting
greafy fpots out of cloth; they are therefore fuppofed to
attract oil from the air and earth, which is the chief in¬
gredient in the nourilhment of plants.
Both the clay and ftone marks are long of diffolving.
Large pieces of the ftone-marie are fometimes found un-
diflblved many years after it has been laid on the land
This renders it neceffary to lay on a large quantity q«
them, left their effects ffiould not at firft appear.
As mark may be ufed with fafety in greater quanti¬
ty than lime, it muft communicate to the foil a ftronger
power of attracting the vegetable food, and confequently
it ought always to be preferred. Mark is likewife pre¬
ferable to lime in this refpeCt, that it is longer of diflbl-
ving; and therefore the land will continue to carry bet¬
ter crops for feveral years longer after it has been marled.
However, if the foil be foft and fpungy, the mark, like
lime, will fink below the reach of the plough, and pre¬
vent thofe advantages which might naturally be expeCled
from it.
Though mark is preferable to lime as a manure; yet it
muft be confidered, that their operation upon the earth
is the fame; confequently, when marled land has been
exhaufted with crops, it cannot receive much benefit
from an immediate application of mark a fecond time;
for the fame reafon, it can receive as little advantage from
lime: Dung therefore, as it contains a great propor¬
tion of the vegetable food, which lime and marks dimi-
nifli, is the moft proper manure for marled or limed
lands exhaufted with crops.
What was faid with regard to the application of lime,
in fmalkr or larger quantities, to barren lands and lands
in good order, may be faid with equal propriety with
regard to ftone and clay marks.
Of Shell-marle.
This mark is of a different nature from the ftone
and clay marks. It does not diflblve with water, but
abforbs and fwells with it like a fpunge: It attracts acids
more forcibly. But the principal difference betwixt the
ftiell-mark and the other marks confifts in this, that
the fliell-mark contains a great quantity of oil.
This mark is therefore fuppofed to promote vegeta¬
tion, by increafing the food of plants, by communicating
to the foil a power of attracting this food from the air,
by dividing the foil into fmall particles, and by preparing
the vegetable food for being abforbed by their roots.
As ftiell-mark does not exhauft land like lime and the
other marks, it may be repeated as often as the huf-
bandman pleafes. Its effects are likewife more fudden.
Of A flies.
The allies of vegetables contain a large quantity of
alkaline fait: Hence they attract acids more ftrongly
than any other fubftances.
The
tr
R E.
49
A G R I C U L T
The operation of afhes upon the foil mull therefore be
of the fame nature with that of lime, only it is more vio¬
lent and fudden, and confequently it is fooner over.
This is confirmed by experience. After land has been
manured with afhes, the firft crop is commonly very lux¬
uriant ; but a fecond crop almoft entirely exhauffs the
land. Hence afhes fhould be laid on in fmall quantities,
and fhould not be applied to land exhaufled by lime or
marie; neither fhould they be repeated, or followed by
thefe manures.
Burnt turf is generally recommended as a manure.
Turfs are chiefly compofed.of vegetables; their afhes,
therefore, muft be of the fame nature with thofe of wood
or any other vegetable fubftance. It is found by experi¬
ence, that the burning of turfs turns out to advantage
in proportion to the number of roots they contain; and
therefore land, with a tough fward of grafs, is moft
proper to be improved in this manner.
In burning turf, the heaps mu ft be covered in fuch a
manner as to prevent the flame from breaking out; o-
therwife the moft ufeful part of the afhes will fly off.
To prevent burnt land from being exhaufted, one or
two crops only fhould be taken, and then the land
ought to be laid out in grafs. Its fertility will be
greatly increafed, if a little dung be added after the
firft crop.
Of Soot.
Soot contains oil, fait, and earth. It promotes ve¬
getation in the fame manner as dung or fhell-marle.
Soot is generally applied in the Spring as a top-drefling
to winter corn or grafs. The effe&s of foot ufed in this
way are fo fudden, that they evidently appear after the
firft rain. But its virtues are commonly exhaufted by a
Angle crop. However, when the effefts of foot are o-
ver, the foil is not exhaufted, as by afhes or lime; it may
therefore be repeated as often as the farmer thinks pro¬
per ; or it may be followed with advantage by afhes,
lime, or marie.
Of Sea-weed.
All plants that grow upon rocks, within reach of the
fea, are good manures. Thefe are frequently loofened
and driven a-fhore by the tide. They are of a foft pul¬
py nature, and foon putrefy.
Sea-weeds promote vegetation in tire fame manner as
dung or foot; but their effe&s are not fo lafting as dung.
However, they are preferable to dung in this refpeff, that
they do not produce fo many weeds.
They may be applied to land in any fituation, and are
peculiarly proper for land that is exhaufted by lime or
afhes. When their effedts ceafe, the land is not injured,
and any kind of manure may be ufed after them.
The oftener fea-weeds are applied, the land becomes
the richer. This is confirmed by experience. The
lands near the fhores, where the v/eeds have been long
ufed as manures, are among the richeft in Scotland, and
have been kept almo'ft conftantly in tillage.
Vol. I. No. 3. 3
Of Shells.
Beds of fhells are to be met with in many places, but
particularly near the fea-fhore.
Thefe fhells ferment with acids, and, like other ani-
mal-fubftances, contain oil, fait, and earth. Their ope¬
ration is fuppoled to be of the fame kind with that of
fhell-marle: But, as they take a long time to diffolve,
their effedts muft -be flower and weaker: They ought
therefore to be applied in large quantities, otherwife
their operation will be hardly perceptible.
Shells exhauft the land, but not near fo much as lime
or afhes; it is therefore improper to ufe them immedi¬
ately after thefe manures.
When fheils are found below the furface of the ground,
as they generally are, they fhould be expofed to the air
for fome time before they are ploughed in: This not
only aflifts their fermentation, but promotes their pu-
trefadlion.
Of Vegetables in an entire Statet or fown for
Manure.
It is a pradtice in many places, particularly in Eng¬
land, to fow turnip, peafe, buck-wheat, &c. and to
plough them down for manuring the land.
^his pradlice is thought by fome people to be attend¬
ed with no advantage;~ becaufe the plants, when plough¬
ed down, can convey no more food to the foil than they
take from it. But it ought to be confidered, that fome
of the plants employed in this manner pufh their roots
below the reach of the plough, and fuck up the food to
the furface; the feed that is fown likewife contains a
great proportion of vegetable food; befides what the
plants, when growing, may derive from the air, 6c. From
thefe circumftances it may be inferred, that they actual¬
ly return more nourifhment to the foil than they extradt
from it. The covering of the furface is alfo an advan¬
tage : Every farmer knov/s, that when the foil has been
covered for a confiderable time by a ftrong crop of peafe,
or any other corn laid ddwn, the foil, though natural¬
ly hard and ftiff, becomes foft, mellow, and free.
Of Water.
Rain-water contains a confiderable quantity of ve¬
getable food. When it falls upon land that has a defeent,
by running off, it muft carry along with it fome of the
fineft particles of the foil and the vegetable food contain¬
ed in them. If this water, then, is let in upon a field, and
allowed to fettle, the land will receive from it not only
the vegetable food contained in the water itfelf, but
likewife what is contained in the particles of earth carried
Off from the higher grounds.
This method of manuring can only be ufed in fields
which lie on the fides of rivers, or fuch as can be eafily
drained. In praftifing it, the water muft not be allowed
to run off violently, otherwife it does more hurt than
good. Hand in graft is moft proper for this kind of
t N manuring.
jo AG R I C U
manuring. The firmnefs of the furface prevents any of
the foil from being carried off when the water is drain¬
ing, and the grafs intangles the mud, and hinders
them from going along with the water.
This operation Ihould be performed in the fprmg. In
that feafbn grafs-lands fuffer leaft from being over¬
flowed.
Sect. HI. Of Soils with respect to
Manures.
Scins are very different in their natures, and compo-
fed of very different ingredients. Some foils contain
more, and others lefs, of the food neceflary for the nou-
rifhment of plants. It is neceffary to inquire into thefe
differences, in order to difcover what manures are moft
proper for each kind.
' The foils moft common in Scotland are the black
loamy, the clay, the fandy, and the molly. Of thefe
there are many varieties, according to the different pro¬
portions of that particular kind of earth from which they
are denominated. Some foils, are even fo blended, that
it is difficult to determine what kind of earth rnoft pre¬
vails in them.
Of the black Loamy Soil.
Pure loam feems to be nothing elfe but the earth of
putrefied vegetables, accumulated by the fucceffive de¬
cay of natural or artificial crops. In cultivated lands,
dung and other manure greatly increafe the quantity of
the loam.
The principal qualities of loam are thefe : When al¬
lowed to reft, it acquires a degree of cohefion, but ne¬
ver becomes fo hard and tough as clay: When turned
up and expofed to the air, it becomes free and open,
and eafily crumbles down : When dry, it readily admits
water, and fwells and retains it like fhell-marle; how¬
ever, it only retains a proper quantity, and allows the
reft to run off. It alfo contains oil, fermentswith acids,
and is of an abforbent nature.
There is no foil altogether pure; but that foil which
has loam in its compofition poffeftes in fome degree all
the qualities of loam; and thefe qualities are unqueftion-
ably the moft proper for nourifhing plants.
Its oils and falls afford food to the plants; the abfor¬
bent quality of which it is poffeffed, alfo attrafts vegetable
food from the air; its friablenefs, aad fermenting with
acids, give an eafy paffage to the roots to acquire this
food.
Experience, the only fare guide in fubjefts of this
kind, fhows that a loamy foil is moft fruitful. Some
foils, when well limed or dunged, may bear as great
crops as the loamy foil; but then they require a fupply
much fooner. The loamy foil has likewife another ad¬
vantage over every other : It does not fuffer fo much
from drought or rain, as clay and fandy foils.
All land called in-field land has a certain quantity of
loam in its compofition, probably owing to the dung
L T U R E.
which is laid from time to time upon it. This is the on¬
ly diftin<ftion betwixt out-field and in-field land.
The foil which contains a great proportion of loam, re¬
quires very little manure. It may be kept conftantly in
good heart by proper tillage and good management.
The common loamy foil requires manure, and no
kind of manure is improper for it; dung, however, is
unqueftionably the beft. Lime, unlefs managed with
care, is in danger of hurting a loamy foil by exhault-
ing it.
Of the Clay-Soil.
The richeft kind of clay-foil is that which ccnfifts of
clay and loam. To difcover the nature of this foil, it
is neceffary to know the qualities of clay.
Clay is a very folid body, and its parts adhere firmly
together: It does not eafily admit water, but is capable
of containing a great quantity, fwells but little, and does
not eafily part with it. When dry, clay is very hard,
and becomes the harder the more fuddenly it is dried.
In the procefs of drying, it contra&s unequally, and
breaks out into rents or fiffures where the cohefion is
weakeft. It ferments with acids, but has no oil in its
compofition.
From a flight view of thefe qualities it appears, that
a clay-foil is pot fo well adapted for the nourifhment of
plants as the loamy: it is more fubjefil: to receive in¬
juries from drought or rain. In a rainy feafon, as it is
averfe to part with the water after it once admits it, the
roots of plants will be much weakened or deftroyed by
being long foaked in the water. On the other hand, in
a very dry feafon, it becomes fo hard, that the roots
cannot penetrate deep enough to fearch for food.
Thefe obfervations are fully confirmed by experience.
For it is well known to the hulbandman, that the pro¬
duce of clay-foils are extremely uncertain, as they are
liable to be deftroyed by dry or wet feafons. Thele foils
labour under another difadvantage; as they repel water,
efpecially when it falls in fmall quantities, they reap no
benefit from dews or flight Ihowers.
The clay-foil is faid to contain vegetable food, but does
not allow it to be eafily diffolved: and hence lime, marks,
or afhes, are the moft proper manures for it, as they divide
it into fmail particles. Thefe manures likewife commu¬
nicate to it a greater power of abforption ; and therefore
they will enable it both to receive and tranfmit water more
readily, and of courfe make it kfs fubjeft to be injured
by the weather. Clay-foils, when mixed with loam,
are very rich ; but, when mixed with fand or till, they
are very poor. Poor clay-foils require fuch manures as
contain the greateft quantity of vegetable food; there¬
fore dung, {hell-mark, fea-weed, he. are the belt ma¬
nures for them.
Of the Sandy Soil.
There are two kinds of fand that enter into the com¬
pofition of foils; the one confifts of fmall particles of
flint, the other of broken ihelis.
The
L T U It E.
5i
A G R I C U
The fandy-foil which is compofed of flinty particles,
eafily receives and tranfmits water; and confequently is
not capable of containing a fufficient quantity for promo¬
ting the growth of plants: Its particles do not adhere,
and is therefore unable to fupport plants that have few
roots and grow high. Befides, it is fufceptible of great¬
er heat from the fun than any other foil, which is apt to
parch the plants. As this foil contains no oil, it mult
be very defective in vegetable food ; and, as it has no
abforbent quality, it will receive but a fmali fupply from
the air.
From the qualities of this foil, the manures molt pro¬
per for it are eafily difcovered. Clay will make it firmer,
and enable it to retain the water; but clay contains lit¬
tle vegetable food. Dung will fupply it with the food
of plants; but will not render it firm, or make it retain
water. Mofs will help it to retain water, and fupply it
with vegetable food; but will not make it firmer-. A
mixture of clay and dung, or of clay and mofs, feerns
therefore to be the molt proper manure for this foil.
The qualities of a fandy foil compofed of broken
Ihells, are nearly the fame with thole of the former
kind. The only differences are, that it ferments with
acids, contains oil, and is capable of being diffolved.
Hence this foil mull have a larger quantity of vegetable
food, and mull alfo receive a greater fupply from the
air. A mixture of clung and clay, or of mofs and clay,
is likewife the moft proper manure for this foil: But if
any fubftance could be found that could reduce the par¬
ticles of the fhells to a flate of putrefaction, it would
be preferable to any thing hitherto known for improving
a foil of this kind.
Of the Moffy Soil.
Moss principally confifls either of live or at leaf!
trncorrupted vegetables. It muft therefore have fait and
oil in its compofition. It does not eafily putrefy, and
prevents other bodies from putrefying. It fwells with
water like a fpunge, and does not eafily part with it.
To render the moffy foil fit for nourifhing plants, the
vegetables in it mult be reduced to a ftate cf putrefaction.
This will not only fupply it with vegetable food, but
likewife render it firmer, and make it more eafily part
with water. Hence thofe manures which ferment moft
violently with acids, as the clay and.Hone marks, feem
to be the moft proper for this foil. Thefe marks will
not only raife a violent fermentation, but fill up the”
pores, and make the foil more folid. When the mofs is
deep, or has not a folid bottom, lime is improper, be-
caufe it will foon penetrate beyond the reach of the
plough; but, if it has a folid bottom, lime will anfwer
very well.
It is improper to fow upon this foil till the fermen¬
tation railed by the manure is completely finilhed; for
the violence of the fermentation fometimes throws the
feeds, and even the roots, out of the ground.
Frequent plougiiings make—the molfy foil run much
into v/eeds; and from this circumftance, the practice of
ploughing it but feldom is found to anfwec better.
Sf.ct. IV. Cf the Impediments to Ve¬
getation.
1. Weeds, as an Impediment to Vegetation.
Every vegetable that grows in afield, different from
the particular plant that is intended to be cultivated, may
be called a 11 eed.
Weeds injure the plants we defire to cultivate, byrob-
bing them of part of their nourifhment, and by preventing
the fpreading of their roots. Some weeds, as quicken-
ing grafs, extend arid interwreave their roots in fuch a
manner that- it is difficult t<j pulverife the foil by tillage.
It is therefore of great importance to the farmer to know
how weeds may be deftroyed. Weeds are generally di¬
vided into three claffes, viz. thofe that are propagated
by the feed; thofe that are propagated by the roots;
and ftirubs.
Cf deflroying Weeds that are propagated ly
Seed.
Weeds are very different in their natures. Some,
if prevented from vegetating, die in a few years by lying
moift in the earth ; others will lie many years in this
fituation, without lofing the power of vegetating.
The firft kind may be deftroyed, by turning the land
infefted with them into grafs for five or fix years; and
both kinds may be rooted out by allowing them to vege¬
tate, and then tearing up the young plants before they
begin to flower.
In order to promote the vegetation of die weeds that
are intended to be deftroyed, the land ought to be well
ploughed; if a little dung, or other manure, be applied*
the crop of weeds will be increafed, and their deftruc-
tion will be rendered more general.
Several weeds, as the thiftle, dandelion, r-ag-weed,
are furnifned with a kind of down, by which they float
in the air, and are carried to great diftances by the wind.
Farmers ftould be as careful to root out all weeds of
this kind from the roots of hedges, banks of fences, &c.
as from their arable land; for although they may have
the appearance of beinginoffenfive in that fituation, they
are tranfported from thence in great quantities by the
wind into the adjacent fields.
There is another great fource of weeds, but too little
attended to by farmers. It is a general practice, to
throw the feeds that are feparated from the corn in win¬
nowing upon the dung-hill; and by this means they are
carried out with the dung, and again fown upon the land.
Of deftroymg Weeds that are propagated by
the Rost.
There are many different kinds of weeds propagated,
by the roots. Some of them infeft land that is in til¬
lage, and others land that is in grafs.
Thefe that inkft land in tillage may be deftroyed by
turning it into grafs for foiue years. This is the raoft
effectual
52 A G R I C 1
effedual means of rooting out quicken-grafs, and other
root-weeds of the fame nature. If the foil be hard and
ftiff, it is the fooner cleared of weeds by being laid out
in grafs; But a foft fpungy foil requires to be in grafs
fix or feven years before the weeds are deftroyed.
Thofe weeds that infeft lands in grafs, are eafieft de¬
ftroyed by turning the land into tillage. Neither is it
neceflary to continue it long in this fituation ; for the
weeds commonly difappear after the firft ploughing.
But as, in fome cafes, it may be inconvenient to turn
a field infefted with weeds from tillage into grafs, or
from grafs into tillage, it is neceflary to confider whether
the fame may not be accompliflied, without altering the
fituation of the land.
When land is in tillage, the weeds may be deftroyed
by frequently ftirring and turning it over in dry weather;
for when the weeds are difplaced, the drought prevents
them from taking root again.
Land cannot be made too fine, nor the furface too
fmooth, when it is intended to be freed of feed-weeds ;
becaufe by that the greateft number are brought to ve¬
getate : But, when intended to be freed of root-weeds,
the rougher the furface, the weeds are the more eafily
deftroyed; becaufe the drought has the eafier accefs to
their roots.
If grafs-lands be infefted with weeds, and it is incon¬
venient to turn them into tillage, the only way of de-
ftroying the weeds, is to cut them frequently, or pull
them up by the roots.
Some lands, after being in grafs a few years, are lia¬
ble to be over-run with fog: In this cafe, rolling, by
making the furface firmer, will be of great ufe in de-
ftroying the fog. This weed, as well as others, may
be deftroyed by depriving it of air. This may be done
by covering the furface with a crop of peafe, potatoes, or
other plants that lie thick on the furface. A deep
trenching will, in fome cafes, anfwer the fame intention.
Of defraying Shrubs, as Furze, Broom, Bram¬
ble, &c.
i. FURZE.
The common method of deftroying furze (or whins)
is by grubbing them out with a hoe. But it is impoflible
to root them out fo compleatly as to prevent their
fpringing again, efpecially if the land be continued in
grafs. The moft effedtual method, therefore, is to bring
the land into tillage immediately after the whins have
been grubbed up. As long as it continues in tillage, no
whins will appear; but if turned into grafs, they grow
as numerous as ever.
To prevent this return of whins, the young plants that
appear after the land is turned into grafs, fhould be pul¬
led up by the roots. Unlefs they are very thick, this is
neither troubleforae nor expenfive: When the ground is
moift, it may be performed by young boys. If any of
them rife afterwards, which is commonly the cafe, the
fame operation muft be repeated every feafon till the
land is compleatly cleared of them.
There is another fcheme of management which in a
r L T U R E.
few years will effe&ually deftroy whins. It is certain
that the feeds of whins will not vegetate imlefs they are
allowed to lie in the earth undifturbed for a confiderable
time. As long as land is left in tillage, although there
be many whin-feeds in it, yet they never vegetate.
Whin-plants do not even appear till two years after the
land has been allowed to reft, or has been turned into
grafs. Now:, if a fcheme of management be followed, by
which the land is turned from tillage into grafs, and
from grafs into tillage, the whins by degrees will be
wholly eradicated.
It was obferved above, that before lands infefted with
whins can be ihiproved, the whins muft be grubbed
up. This operation is both tedious and expenfive.
The following method of rooting them out by the plough
is more expeditious, lefs expenfive, and has been tried
with fuccefs.
This work muft: be performed by a ftrong Scotch
plough, with a well redd beam. As it requires great
force to tear up the roots, fix hoffes ftiould be yoked in
pairs. Two drivers are likewife neceflary, to prevent the
horfes from ftepping afide. As the whins in rifing are
apt to entangle or choke the beam, another man is alfo
neceflary to pulh them off with a pitch-fork. A plough
yoked and attended in this manner, will plow down
whins near three feet high, with roots above four feet
long, and an inch in diameter. This operation fliould
be performed in the winter,'when the land is well foaked
with rain.
After the land has been ploughed in this manner, it
ftiould be allowed to lie till fummer, when the whins
torn up by the plough may be burned, the land harrow¬
ed, and the roots gathered. Afterwards the land may
be drefled according to the judgment of the farmer; only
the fecond ploughing fhould be acrofs, that any roots
which have been left may be torn up.
But when the whins are fo ftrong that it is impoflible to
plough them down, they may be burned ; and if the land
be allowed to lie a few years after, it may be ploughed
without much difficulty.
2. BROOM.
Broom is not fo bufhy, and does not cover the fur¬
face fo much as whins; and therefore land infefted
with it is more eafily cleared. Though the methods re¬
commended for deftroying whins will moft effectually
deftroy broom, a more Ample and lefs expenfive one will
fufficiently anfwer the purpofe.
If broom, efpecially when it is old, be cut fo low as
to take away all the leaves, it will never fpring again,
A kind of fcythe has lately been invented, by which
broom may be cut in this manner with great expedition.
If this method be obferved, it is unneceflary to bring
land from grafs into tillage in order to clear it of
broom.
3. BRAMBLE.
This plant is of a very different nature from whin or
broom. The root finks deep into the earth, and fpreads
very wide. Though cut in the winter, it rifes and
comes to fuch perfection as to carry fruit in the fummer.
It
A G R I C U
It is therefore a difficult matter to clear land of bram¬
ble, efpecially when it is ftony; for the bramble pufhes
and interweaves its roots among the Hones, which renders
it necefl’ary to dig out the Hones before it can be fuffi-
ciently rooted up by ploughing or tearing. How¬
ever, digging out the Hones, and ploughing the land in
fuch a manner as is moH proper for cutting and tearing
up the roots of bramble, may be the more fafely recom¬
mended, as they at the fame time ferve many other
ufeful purpofes.
2. Of Water, as an Impediment to Vege¬
tation.
Some plants require a greater, and fome a lefler pro¬
portion of water in their food. The plants ufually cul¬
tivated in our fields are of the latter kind, and are eafi-
ly injured by an over-proportion of water. Hence, wa¬
ter may be confidered as an impedement to vegetation;
and it becomes neceflary to confider the moH proper me¬
thods of conveying it off the land.
Of draining Land.
Some lands are wet from their fituation, being expo-
fed to overflowings from higher grounds, and having no
proper defcent to allow the water to run off.
The bottom of fome land is of fuch a nature as to
force out, in fprings, the water that runs below the fur-
face. Springs fometimes break out, becaufc die chan¬
nels, in which they run, reach the furface; and fome¬
times becaufe they are interrupted in their courfe, which
makes them force their way above ground.
The wetnefs of land is fometimes occafioned by vio¬
lent and frequent rains ; and fometimes all thefe caufes
may concur in rendering land wet.
Land that is wet from its fituation may be drained in
this manner : Although the wet land be fo low, as to
render it difficult to carry off the water; yet the water
may be intercepted by a drain, before it reaches the low
ground. ^
Land, wet by fprings, lies generally in a Hoping di-
re&ion, which makes it the more eafy to drain. When
the water runs near the furface, before it breaks out, it
may be intercepted by a drain drawn acrofs the decli¬
vity, a little above the place where it firfl makes its ap¬
pearance. But, if the channel lies deep, the drain ftiould
be drawn diredlly acrofs where it fprings up.
But, when the wetnefs of the land is owing to the
climate, or a rainy feafon, the water cannot be inter¬
rupted by drains; however, obflruftions may be remo¬
ved, fo as to allow the water to run off as quickly as
poflible. To drain land in this fituation, it is neceffary
to lay it up in ridges properly placed, and to cut fmall
drains acrofs thefe ridges, communicating with each ci¬
ther, and with the furrows. By this method all the
furrows betwixt the ridges become drains; the water,
as it falls upon the ridges, immediately makes its way
to the furrows; and, if it meets with an interruption in
any of them, it is conveyed by the drains acrofs the
Vox.. I. No. 3. 3
L T U R E. 53
ridges into fome other furrow, along which it is carried
off the field.
There are two kinds of drains, viz. open drains, and
hollow drains. Hollow drains differ from open ones,
in being filled with loofe' Hones, covered with turff, brulh-
wood, or Hraw, and a layer of earth thick enough to al¬
low a plough to go eafily through above. Thefe hollow
drains are attended with two advantages; no land is
loll by them, and they are no impediment in ploughing.
Open drains, however, are in moH cafes preferable to
hollow ones: They alone are capable of intercepting o-
verflowings from higher grounds, and for carrying off
water that falls in rain. The water in thefe cafes being
always on the furface, will run freely over hollow drains,
efpecially when fituated on a declivity. But hollow drains
may be ufed with advantage in land wet by fprings ; be¬
caufe nothing more is required than to continue the chan¬
nels of the water below ground, and not allow it to
break out, till it arrives at a place where it can do no
harm.
It will not be improper here to mention, that fome
foils retain water much longer than others, and confe-
quently are more liable to be damaged by water. Soils
that have a large proportion of clay, or of mofs, are of
this kind. As thefe foils naturally retain water like a
fpunge, cafling drains, and laying the land up in ridges,
will not convey it away. To drain fuch lands, their na¬
ture, and power of retaining water, mufl be changed by
culture.
The clay-foil can onlybedrained byfrequent Hirring, and
the application of fuch manures as raife a fermentation.
Thefe operations open the pores of the foil, and thereby
afford a free paffage to the water.
The moffy foil, on the other hand, is too open and
porous, but is pofleffed of an abforbing quality, by which
it retains the water. To drain this foil, it is neceflary
to condenfe it, and, if poflible, to deflroy its quality of
retaining water. Frequent flirrings, and fuch manures as
raife a fermentation, and tend to putrefy the mofs, are
faid to render it firm and folid, and thereby both pre¬
vent it from receiving fo large a quantity of water, and
deffroy the quality of retaining it.
Of draining Marines.
The foil of mariflies, being compofed of diflblved ve¬
getables, dufl blown in by the winds, and earth waflied
down from the high grounds with tyhich they are gene¬
rally furrounded, is light and fpungy, but very rich and
valuable when drained.
In draining a marifh, all the Hagnating water ftiould
be firfl carried off by a large open drain, with a fufficient
fall, and as deep as the bottom of the marilh. When
the Hagnating v/ater is conveyed away, the earth by de¬
grees will fubfide, and become folid ; and fome land
will thus be gained on each fide : The bottom likewile
foon becomes firm enough to allow the drain to be gra¬
dually carried forward through the middle of the marifh J
If the fprings, which fupply the water, rife near the
middle of the marifh, this principal drain, with a few
branches on each fide, where the fprings are largefl or
f O moft
54 A G R I C U
moft numerous, will be fufficient. But, if the fprings
be irregularly difperfed through the whole marilh, as is
frequently the cafe, fide-drains parallel to the principal
one will be neceffary to intercept the water that comes
from the higher grounds and fupplies the fprings. Crofs
drains, communicating with the parallel and principal
drains, are likewife necefiary; and fnould all be kept o-
pen till the foil hath fully fubfided, and become firm;
then the fide-drains and crofs-drains may be convert¬
ed into hollow-drains, in the manner above defcribed.
But the principal drain, efpecially if the marilh be ex-
teiifive, fhould always remain Open.
Sect. V. Of Tillage.
Tillage is the operation of breaking the foil into
fmall particles, by ftirring and turning it over, laying it
up in ridges, <&c. In this part of agriculture, it is ne-
ceflary to be acquainted with the different foils proper
For nourilhing plants; the inftrumfents belt adapted for
ftirring and turning them over; and the conftruftion and
mariner of ufing thefe inftruments.
Soils, with refpect to tillage, may be divided into
ftiff and light, wet and dry, deep and (hallow. This
divifion is the more proper on this account, that the me¬
thod of performing the operation of tillage has always
a reference to one or more of thefe qualities of foil, and
to no other.
The inftruments employed in tillage are various; as
the plough, the harrow, the roller, <6r. which are a-
gain greatly diverfified by differences arifing from their
eonftru<!tion and particular ufes.
i. Of the Scots Plough.
In Scotland, this plough is ftill the moft common
and the moft generally underftood. If properly made,
it is the beft plough for anfwering all purpofes, when
only one is ufed; though others are, perhaps, more pro¬
per for fome particular purpofes.
The parts of which this plough is compofed are, the
head, the beam, the (heath, the wreft, the mold-board, the
two handles, the two rungs, the fock, and the coulter;
the two laft are made of iron, and all the reft of wood.
The Head, Plate VIII. fig. i. is defigned for open¬
ing the ground below. The length of the head from
A to B is about twenty inches, and the breadth from
A to D about five inches; C is the point upon which the
fock is driven, and the length from B to C is about fix
inches ; a is the mortoife into which the larger handle is
fixed; and b is the mortoife into which the (heath is fixed.
The head is that part of the plough which goes in
the ground; therefore the (hotter and narrower it is, the
fruition will be the left, and the plough more eafily
drawn; but the longer the head is, the plough goes
more fteadily, and is not fo eafily put out of its direc¬
tion by any obftruftions that occur. Twenty inches is
confidered as a mean length; and five inches as the moft
convenient breadth.
The Sheath, fig. 2. E, is driven into the mortoife,
L T U It E.
fig. 1. b, and thus fixed to the head A B. It is not
perpendicular to the head, but placed obliquely, fo as
to make the angle formed by the lines A B and E B
about 60 degrees. The (heath is about 13 inches long,
befides what is driven into the mortoife b; about three
inches broad, and one inch thick.
The (heath is fixed to the mold-board, as in fig. 11. E,
in die fame manner as the wreft is fixed to the head in
7-
The Mold-board is defigned to turn over the earth
of the furrow made by the plough ; and it is obvious,
that, according to the pofition of the (heath, the mold-
board will turn over the earth of the furrow more or left
fuddenly, Befides, when it forms a left angle with the
head than 60 degrees, the plough is in great danger of
being choked, as the farmers term it.
The Larger Handle, fig. 3. F A, is fixed to the head,
by driving it into the mortoife a, fig. 1. It is placed in
the fame plane with the head; and its length from A F
is about five feet four inches, and its diameter at the
place where it is fixed to the beam is about two inches
and a half, and tapers a little to the top F. About ten
inches from A, there is a curve in the handle, which,
when F is raifed to its proper height, makes the lower
part of it nearly parallel to the (heath E B. This curve
is defigned to ftrengthen the handle. The proper pofi¬
tion of the handle is, when the top F is about three feet
two inches higher than the bottom of the head A B.
The longer the handles, the plough is the more eafily
managed, becaufe the levers are more diftant from the
centre of motion. The higher the top of the handles,
the plough is more eafily raifed out of the ground, pro¬
vided they be no higher than the lower part of a man’s
bread.
The Beam, fig. 4. is fixed to the larger handle and
the (heath, all of which are placed in the fame plane
with the head. The length of it, from H to I, is a-
bout fix feet; its diameter is about four inches. When
the plough is in the ground, the beam (houldbe juft high
enough not to be incommoded by any thing on the fur-
face.
The pofition of the beam depends on the number of
cattle in the plough. When two horfes are yoked, the
beam (hould be placed in fuch a manner as to make the
perpendicular diftance betwixt the bolt-hole of the beam
and the plane of the head about 21 inches; when four
horfes are yoked, two a-breaft, this diftance (lioidd only
be about 18 inches.
The Sock, fig. 5. B P, is fixed to the end of the head,
and is about two feet long. In fitting the fock to the
head, the point ought to be turned a little to the land
or left fide ; becaufe otherwife, it is apt to come out of
the land altogether. When turned to the left, it like¬
wife takes off more land; when turned upwards, the
plough goes (hallow; and when downwards, it goes
deeper.
The Coulter, fig. 6. is fixed to the beam, and is
about two feet ten inches long, two inches and a half
broad, (harp at die point and before, and thick on the
back, like a knife. It is fixed and directed by wedges,
fo as to make the point of it equal to., or rather a little
before
A G R I C U
before the point of the fock, and upon a line with the
left fide of the head. This oblique pofition enables it
to throw roots, <be, out of the land, which requires lefs
force than cutting or pufhing them forward.
The Wrest, fig. 7. B D, is fixed to the head, and
is about 26 inches long, two broad, and one thick. It
is fixed to the head at B, in fuch a manner as to make
the angle contained between the lines A B and B D
about 2j degrees. The w~eft is feldom or never placed
in the fame plane with the head, but gradually raifed
from the place where it is fixed to it; that is, from B
to K, as in fig. 8. The pbfition of the wreft determines
the nature of the furrow. When the wrelt is wide and
low fet, the furrow is wide; and when it is narrow and
high fet, the furrow is narrow.
Fig. 9. reprefents the two Handles, fixed together
by the two rungs. The larger handle has been already
defcribed ; the Teller one is a few inches Ihorter, and
does not require to be quite fo llrong. The diftance of
the handles at the little rung depends on the pofition of
the wreft. Their diftance at M and P is about two feet
fix inches. The lefter handle is fixed to the mold-board
at M, fig 10. and to the wreft K B, at L.
Fig. 11. reprefents the plough complete, by joining
together figures 6. and 10. in the (heath E B. The wreft
B K is fuppofed to make an angle with the head A B,
as in fig. 7. and the handles joined together, as in fig. 9.
After having given fuch a particular defcription of all
the parts and proportions of the Scots plough, it will ea-
fily appear how it feparates, raifes, and turns over the
earth of the furrow. If it had no coulter, the earth
would open above the middle of the fock, and in a line
before the Iheath; but as the coulter opens the earth in
a line with the left fide of the head, if the foil has any
cohefion, the earth of the furrow will be wholly raifed
from the left fide, and as the fock moves forward, will
be thrown on the right fide of the (heath, and by the
caftitig out of the mold-board, or the railing of the wreft,
will be turned over.
This plough, though the beft general one, is not alto¬
gether perfect. As the fock is high in the middle, and
round on the fides, and as the point of it is in a line
with the middle of the head, a great force is neceflary
to raife the earth of the furrow. Befides, as the (heath
is nearly in a line with the point of the fock, and to the
right of the left fide of the head, the earth of the fur¬
row, as it is raifed, mu ft ftrike againft the (heath, and a
part of it, inftead of being turned wholly to the right,
will fall to the left fide. Thefe defers make the plough
heavy to draw; and, befides, this pofition of -the (heath
renders the Scots plough improper for hoeing, as the
earth that falls to the left buries the young plants in the
rows.
To remedy the defe&s arifing from the fock-, it (liould
be made straight on the land-fide, fo as to be in a line
with the land or left fide of the head; and ftraight alfo
below, fo as to be in a line with the under fide of the
head, (loping on the furrow or left fide; and likewife on
the upper fide from the point, fo as to make it, at the
root, about feven inches broad, and three inches thick;
at the fame time (loping all the way from the land to
L T U R E. £5
the furrow, fo as to form the furrow-fide into a (harp
edge. It is obvious, that this fock will meet with
lefs refiftance than the common one, will raife the earth
of the furrow wholly from the left fide, and turn it as it
is raifed.
To remedy the deleft arifing from the (heath, it fliould
be brought a little nearer the larger handle, and another
(heath (hould be fixed a little before it, to the left or
land-fide of the head and beam ; to this (heath the mold-
board fliould be fixed. If this be done, the earth of
the furrow, as it is raifed, will be refifted by the mold-
board only, and wholly turned to the right.
The Bridle, or Muzzle, is another article belong¬
ing to the plough. It is fixed to the end of the beam,
and the cattle are yoked by it. The muzzle commonly
ufed is a curved piece of iron, fixed to the beam by a
bolt through it. In fig. 12. ABC is the muzzle, A C
the bolt by which it is fixed to the beam; D is the
fwingle-tree, or crofs-tree, to which the traces are fix¬
ed ; and B is a hook, or cleek, as it is commonly called,
which joins the muzzle and fwingle-tree.
Some ufe another kind of muzzle, fig. 13. A B C D.
It is fixed to the beam by two bolts, and has notches by
which the cleek of the fwingle-tree may be fixed either
to the right or the left of the beam. There are alfo dif¬
ferent holes for the hind-bolt to pafs through, by which
the draught may be fixed either above or below the beam.
A D is the fore-bolt upon which the muzzle turns; on
B C are four notches, betwixt any two of which the
cleek of the fwingle-trce may be fixed. When the cleek
is fixed at B, the plough is turned towards the firm land,
and takes off a broader furrow; and when fixed at C,
it is turned towards the ploughed land, and takes off a
narrower furrow. E and F are the holes on each fide
through which the hindmoft bolt pafles. When the bolt
is put through the higheft two, thefe holes being thereby
brought to the middle of the beam, the fore-part of the
muzzle is raifed above the beam, and the plough is made
to go deeper; and when put through the loweft two; the
fore-part of the muzzle is funk below the beam, and the
plough is made to go (hallower. This muzzle may be fo
conftrufted as to have the fame play with the common
one. Fig. 16. A is the end of the beam ; B a plate of
iron funk into it, and, with a fimilaf one in the other fide,
is rivetted into it by bolts; C is the muzzle fixed to
thefe plates of iron by the bolt D, which bolt may he
put through any of the holes E E. From the conftruc-
tion of this muzzle it is plain, that it has the fame play
with the common one, and that by it the land of the
plough may be altered .at pleafure.
Of the Plough with the curved Mold-board.
The mold-board of the Scots plough is not quite
ftraight, but is caft out above, and more and more fo as
it approaches the leffer handle.
Ploughs with a curved mold-board commonly have no
wreft, the mold-board ferving for both. The under¬
part of it, which ferves in place of the wreft, becomes
parallel to the plane of the head as it approaches the
handle; and fometimes, after it has palled the handle,
is
56 t A G R I C I
is made to turn inwards; and the fore-part of it, which
is ftraight below, is more and more curved the further
up it comes, refembling the bow of a fnip.
If one mold-board be preferable to another, it muft
be either becaufe it throws the earth of the furrow more
properly, or makes the plough more eafily drawn. Now,
the ufe of the mold-board is to raife the earth, turn it
over, and, if it be taken off narrow, to fhift it a little
to the right hand. The common mold-board, when
right made, performs all thefe operations gradually. But
the curved mold-board, as it is call out above in the
fore-part, prevents the furrow from rifing, and turns it
over fuddenly. In land that eafdy breaks in pieces, the
common mold-board has the advantage, becaufe it raifes
the earth of the furrow higher than the other, and leaves
it more loofe and open. But the curved mold-board
is preferable in land that is not eafily broke, for, by
turning over the earth fuddenly, it is apter to tear it
afunder.
The plough is more eafily drawn by the common
mold-board, as'it has lefs friftion than the curved one.
Of the Plough with the feathered Sock.
The difference between the feathered and the com¬
mon fock will be beft underftood by comparing their fi¬
gures. Fig. 14. is the common fock, and fig. 15. the
feathered one.
From the conflrudtion of the feathered fock, it is ob¬
vious, that it mull meet with greater refinance than the
common fock. However, when the plough takes off the
earth of the furrow broader than that part of the fock
which goes upon the head, it is more ea fily drawn than the
plough with the common fock; for the earth which the
common fock leaves to be opened by the wreft, is more
eafily opened by the feather of the other fock. In lea,
the feathered fock makes the plough go more eafily, be¬
caufe the roots of the grafs, which go beyond the reach
of the plough, are more eafily cut by the feather than
they can be torn afunder by the common fock. The fea¬
thered fock is alfo of great ufe in cutting and deftroying
root-weeds. The common fock, however, anfwers much
better in ftrong land.
It is proper here to add, that in fitting the feathered
fock to the headj the point of it fhould be turned a little
from the land, or a little to the right hand,
Of the Wheeled Plough.
The Scots wheeled plough is formed by adding wheels
to the old Scots plough, and giving it a curved mold-
board, or feathered fock, according to the inclination of
the farmer. The advantage or disadvantage of the
wheels is therefore the only thing to be confidered in
this place.
The following are the principal advantages of wheels
to a plough of this kind. Wheels regulate the plough;
they make it go to a certain depth, take off the earth of
the furrow of a determinate breadth, and make the
plough very eafy to manage. Wheels likevvife make it
r L T U R E.
eafy for the ploughman to keep the ridges ftraight, which
it is difficult to do without them.
The difadvantages attending a wheeled plough are
nearly equal to its advantages. It has too much ma¬
chinery, which is an inconvenience in any inftrument. It
is improper for ploughing ridges acrofs. It is alfo very
inconvenient for ploughing narrow ridges; for it muff
be frequently altered in ploughing out a ridge. The
wheel that goes in the furroVbeing higher than the o-
ther, when both wheels are going upon .the furface, the
beam muft be changed from its ordinary pofition, and
placed in fuch a manner as to keep the plough even, and
to make it go a little deeper than ordinary. When a
furrow is made for the wheel to go in, the beam muft
be altered again to its Ordinary 'pofition; and when the
ridge is near finiffied, fo that both wheels are going in
furrows, the pofition of the beam mult be changed, to
keep the plough even, and to prevent it from going too
deep.
Of the Four-coultered Plough.
In England, this plough is faid to be ufed with fuc-
cefs. But after repeated trials by thofe who attempted
to ufe it in Scotland, they have been obliged to give
it up.
So many coulters in the ground at once muft meet
with many obftacles, which will give different direftions
to the plough, according to the different parts of the
coulters to which the refiftance is applied. Befides, it is
difficult to place the planes of the coulters exaftly paral¬
lel to each other; and if this be not done, they will be
continually adting upon the plough in different diredtions.
When this plough is employed for breaking up grafs-
grounds, which is the chief defign of it, the oblique po¬
fition of the coulters is apt to raife the turf in fuch a
manner as to intangle it betwixt them, and thereby en¬
tirely flop the plough.
This plough ffiould always be made with wheels for
regulating its diredtion; the planes of the coulters ffiould
be exadtly parallel to each other: The firft coulter muft
be fet almoft perpendicular, and ffiould not go above two
inches deep; the fecond ffiould dope a little, and go
fomewhat deeper than the firft, and fo on to the laft.
Soft meadow-land, free from /tones, is beft adapted
to the nature of this plough.
Of the Iron Plough.
This plough is formed upon the model of the old Scots
plough; only the feveral parts of it are ffiorter, and the
head and fock are of one piece like the Engliffi plough-
ffiare.
This plough is lighter, and confequently more eafily
drav/n than any other plough ufed in Scotland ; and, as
it is ffiorter, the fridtion is alfo diminiffied. Neither is
the earth fo apt to ftick to it, and clog it while going.
But thefe are only feeming advantages ; for the lightnefs
and ffiortnefs of it render it extremely fubjedt to change
its diredtion upon meeting with the leaft obftrudtion. Soft
Plate Mil.
' i.JM/
A G R I C U
land, with few ftones, therefore, is the only land in which
it can be employed with advantage.
The iron plough is fubjedl to another inconveniency.
When any thing goes wrong, it cannot be redified on
the field, but mud be carried to the fmithy, which is
often at a confiderable diftance.
Of yoking Cattle in Ploughs.
It is not eafy to determine whether horfes or oxen, or
both together, are mod proper for drawing ploughs ; be-
caufe, in this country,, fuch a determination depends on
circumftances almoft as various as the number and fitu-
ation of farms in it. If, indeed, real labour alpne was
fufficient to determine this point, oxen would be prefer¬
red ; becaufe they will ftand to the draught, and over¬
come a refiftance which horfes would yield to. We
fiiall therefore confine this head to the manner of
yoking cattle, without regard to the kind of cattle em¬
ployed.
The chief queftion on this fubjeit is, Whether cattle
fhould be yoked in pairs, or in a line before one an¬
other ?
The mod common way of yoking cattle is in pairs.
Though this, upon the whole, be the bed method, yet
it is fubject to fome difadvantages. In ploughing the
furrows betwixt the ridges, the cattle go upon the
ploughed land, and tread it down with their feet, Which
is peculiarly hurtful to wet land : When there is but as
much of the ridge unploughed as the cattle have hardly
room to go upon, they frequently give the plough a
wrong diredion by going into the oppofite furrow; or,
which is dill.worfe, they are apt to judle the furrow-
cattle upon the ploughed land.
To remove thefe inconveniencies, yoking the cattle in
a line has been recommended. But this method has
l?een attended with greater inconveniencies than thofe it
is intended to remedy. When yoked in this manner,
they go all in the furrow, which makes it neceffary to
give the plough more land than ordinary, either by
means of the fock or muzzle; and confequently makes
the draught too heavy. Befides, when cattle are yoked
in a line, it gives fome of them an opportunity of throw¬
ing the chief burden upon the others. There is ftill an¬
other inconveniency attends this method. When the
cattle are all in a line, the whole force is applied to the
diredion of the traces of the hindmoft horfe; and confe¬
quently it cannot have fuch an effed on the plough as
when a part of it is in a more horizontal diredion.
Each of thefe methods, however, may be ufed with
advantage in certain circumftances ; yoking in pairs, as it
is certainly the ftrongeft draught, fhould be preferred in
ploughing iliff land. On the other hand, yoking in a
line anfwers beft in wet land, which is liable to be much
hurt by the treading? of the cattle.
Of Ploughing.
Ploughing is the adion of the plough in ftirring
and turning over the foil. By opening the foil and en-
larging the furface, it gives it an opportunity of extrad-
Vol. I. No.3. 3
L T U R E. 57
ing the vegetable food from the air; and confequently
increafes the food of plants. Ploughing likewife dif-
folves and reduces to a ftate of putrefadion the dung,
oils, and vegetable fubftances that happen to be mixed
with the foil, and prepares them for entering the roots
of plants. When properly managed, ploughing de-
ftroys weeds, and drains the land when too wet. Hence,
ploughing is one of the moft important operations in
agriculture, and therefore merits the greateft atten¬
tion.
When ploughing is defigned to enrich the land, or in-
creafe the food of plants, the furface cannot be made too
uneven; becaufe the more of it is by this means expofed
to the influence of the air.
But when the intention of ploughing is to deftroy feed-
weeds, the furface cannot be made too fmooth, nor the
mold too much broken ; becaufe, by this management,
their vegetation is promoted, and confequently they may
be more completely deftroyed by ploughing them in.
Again, if you plough with a view to remove wetnefs,
the land muft be laid up in high ridges; for the greater
the number of furrows, and the higher the ridges, the
water is more expeditioufly carried off.
Thus the manner of ploughing muft always depend, on
the objett in view. It frequently happens indeed, that
two or more of thefe objedls require our attention in
ploughing the fame piece of land. But the methods a-
bove mentioned are perfectly confiftent with each, and
may be combined fo as to anfwer any intention that may
occur.
In ploughing, there are fome general rules to be obfer-
ved, whatever be the object in view. Thus, land fliould
never be ploughed when it is wet, becaufe the intention
of it will be fruftrated, whatever may be the nature of
the foil. A ftiff foil, when ploughed wet, dries fud-
denly, and becomes hard. If a light foil be ploughed wet*
the water hinders it from being reduced to fmall enough
particles. Befides. thefe difadvantages, the labour be¬
comes very fevere on the cattle, and the land is much
hurt by .their treading.
With regard to ploughing lee, or opening up grafs-
grounds, the common praftice in Scotland is to plough
it as (hallow and narrow as poflible, and to fet the turf
upon its edge. After this fingle furrow, the land is
fown, and if it be good, a profitable crop may be ex¬
pected ; and the turf will be completely rotten before
next feafon.
On the contrary, in breaking up of barren land, it
fhould be ploughed deep, and the turf turned on its
back.
Of Ridges.
It was formerly ebferved, that ploughing in ridges
removes wetnefs, enlarges the furface, and confequently
affords more fpace for the plants to extradt nourifhment
from the foil.
When the foil is wet, the ridges ought to be narrow,
and fteep; becaufe, by this means, the number of drains
is increafed, and the water finds its way more eafily into
the furrows.. They fliould likewife be raifed high in the
f P middle
58 A G 1! I C U
mid'ile or crown; for the higher they are raifed, the
more is the farface enlarged. However, if the foil be
fiiailow, the ridges (hould not be raifed high, as they de¬
prive the furrows of foil.
But, in low flat-lying ground, the ridges (hould be
made flat, in order to raife the furrows ; for, in fome
cafes, the higher the furrows are raifed, it is the more
eafy to find a fall for carrying off the water. Flat
ridges are alfo capable of being fown with greater ex-
adinefs.
It is impradlicable to give any general rule for laying
out ridges. In fome fituations, narrow ridges are pre¬
ferable to broad ones; in others, flat ridges are better
than fteep ones, <bc. In laying out c?f ridges, therefore,
every perfon muft be determined in this point by the na¬
ture and fituation of the foil, and the advantages or
difadvantages of the different kinds of ridges.
But, whatever be the nature or fituation of the foil,
the ridges (hould always be made ftraight. In plough¬
ing crooked ridges, the cattle muit often go in a diffe¬
rent direction from the plough, and are obliged to take
ihort. turnings, which hurt the land by the treading of
the cattle. Befides, when the ridges are crooked, the
fall for the water is diminifhed. In all foils too, the
fidges fhould be made of the fame breadth throughout,
and equal to one another. When they are unequal, it is
difficult to fow them with exadtnefs, or to alter them
when neceffary ; and the plough mull often turn in the
middle of the ridge, which hurts the land by the tram¬
pling of the cattle.
Of the Toft ion of the Ridges.
It is a matter of fome cOnfequence to know how
ridges fhould be placed, fo as heft to anfwer the fituation
of the land.
In lands that have a flope, the ridges are commonly
placed in a ftraight line from the top to the bottom of
rhe declivity. When the declivity is gentle, this pofi-
tionis very proper, as it drains the land of water. But
when’the declivity is great, this pofition allows the foil
to be wafhed away by the rain ; and the quantity of foil
carried off will always be in proportion to the violence
with which the current runs : Hence, in a foil fituated in
this manner, the ridges fhould be placed acrofs the de-
etivir/i to prevent the foil from being carried down by the
water. Making the ridges very narrow will, in a good
meafure, anfwer the fame purpofe; however, it is not
fo proper as placing them acrofs the declivity.
When land is very dry, crofs ridges are alfo of great
ufe; for they retain the water, and prevent the foil from
being wafhed away.
Of ploughing in Ridges.
There are three different ways of ploughing in
ridges, viz. gathering, calling, and cleaving.
• By gathering, the crown and furrows of the ridge are
kept in the fame pofition in which they were before :
the plough begins in the crown, and plows out the ridge,
turning the earth towards the crown, where it firft en-
L T U R E.
tered. Every ridge is ploughed by itfelf; or the halves
of two contiguous ridges may be ploughed together. By
this method, as the earth on each fide is turned upon
the crown, and thrown up out of the furrows, the ridge
muft be raifed higher.
By cajling, the crowns and furrows are likewife kept
in their former pofition: The ridges are ploughed in
pairs : The plough may enter in the furrow betwixt the
ridges, and plough out the ridges, turning the earth to¬
wards the furrow where it entered; or, the plough may
enter in the furrow on the right fide of the two ridges,
then turn to the one on the left, and plough out the
ridges, turning the earth to thcfe furrows, and from the
furrow that is betwixt them. By this method of plough¬
ing, -the ridges are kept of the lame height in the crown,
and one of the furrows made a little higher, and the o*
ther a little lower than before.
Cleaving is the reverfe of gathering. The plough
enters in the furrow on the right-fide of the ridge, turns
to the furrow on the left-fide, and ploughs out the
ridge, turning the earth from the crown towards the fur¬
rows. Every ridge is ploughed by itfelf, or the halves
of two ,contiguous ridges may be ploughed together. If
the ridge be raifed in the crown, this method of plough¬
ing makes it flatter, by throwing fome of it into the
furrows. •
There is another method of ploughing ufed in fome
places, called ribbing. This method is performed by
making furrows about two feet diftant from each other.
One half of the furface is untouched by the plough ; and
the other half, which the plough turns up in making the
furrows, is thrown on the top of what remains faft. The
land may be ploughed in this manner either without re¬
gard to ridges, or the plough may be made to enter and
turn, as in gathering, cafting, or cleaving. This kind
of ploughing is feldom praftifed, but in the beginning of
winter, and upon land to be fown with barley, after two
additional clean ploughings. Although fome modern im¬
provers have condemned ribbing, it certainly has its ufes :
It keeps the land dry ; the rain that falls is confined to
the furrows, from whence it is eafily carried oft'; it pro¬
motes the rotting of the ftubble, • and expofes a greater
part of the foil to the influence of the air.
Of Harrows.
The harrow is an inftrument employed for fmoothing
the furface after the land is ploughed. One horfe is fuf-
ficient to draw the harrow commonly ufed in Scotland.
Sometimes two of them go a-breaft, and fometimes three.
When the furface is very rough, two are reckoned fuffi-
cient for the attention of one perfon : But when three
can be ufed, they make better work, and are nearly e-
qual to two pair.
There are feveral kinds of harrows ufed in Scotland.
The common one is fo well known that it needs no de-
fcription.
When the land is rough, the harrows are apt to ftart,
and get a-top of each other. To prevent this, fome fix
pieces of crooked timber to the out-fide bulls that are
contiguous to one another, which, by ftretching a little
over,
A G R t C U
oyer, keep the harrows in their proper place. Others
couple the harrows in fuch a manner as to allow them
to go before and fall back of each other, and at the fame
time turn upon a hinge.
When fliff land is ploughed wet, it rifes in large
pieces, which, when dry, become fo hard, that the
common harrows make no impreffion on them. To re¬
duce this kind of land, a large harrow, called a break,
has been contrived. The break-harrow is fometimes
made of the fame figure with the common harrow, and
fometimes in a triangular form. Both kinds are made
heavier or lighter according to the nature of the foil for
which they are intended. Some of them are fo heavy
as to require fix or eight cattle to draw them. But the
heaviefl kind are very improper for land infefted with
large fall hones ; becaufe their weight hinders them from
starting over the hones; and therefore they are often in
danger of being torn afunder by the cattle.
There is another harrow, which, though little ufed,
will be found to be very ufeful in many cafes. It is of
the fame form with the common harrow, but much
broader. The bulls are at a greater di(lance, and ccm-
fequently the teeth thinner placed ; the teeth are longer
than thofe of the common harrow, but very little thick¬
er ; and thofe in the fore-part (lope forward. It is made
of fuch a weight as to be eafily drawn by a couple of
horfes. This harrow goes deeper, opens land better,
covers the feed deeper, and is more proper for tearing
Up roots than the common harrow.
The French harrow is of a triangular form, with a
joint near the angle, to which the draught is fixed. It
has two handles, by which it is either made to go deep
or (hallow, as occafion requires. Its principal ufe is to
level deep ridges, which it does mod efFe£fual]y. It is
drawn acrofs the ridges: When, at the crown of the
ridge, by preffing on the handles, the harrov/ finks down,
and carries earth along with it to the furrows; and,
when at the furrows, by lifting up the handles, the har¬
row is brought out of the ground, and leaves the earth
behind. This operation, however, is extremely impro¬
per, unlefs the land be in a very dry fituation, and not
liable to be damaged by water.
Of Harrowing.
Harrowing frnootbs the furface, dedrojs weeds,
and covers the feed after it is Town.
When the intention of harrowing is to deftroy root-
weeds, the harrows’(hould be drawn acrofs the ridges.
However, if fuch weeds are not fully torn up, the har¬
rowing, by filling up the hollows, and defending the
roots from the drought, rather promotes their growth;
For this reafon, harrowing is improper for destroying
root-weeds, excepting after a fpring-fallov.y when the
land is foon after to be ploughed for feed.
But the fmoother the farface is made, and the more
the mold is broke, the vegetation of the feed-weeds is
the more effefhiaily promoted, and of courfe they are
the more liable to be deftroyed by harrowing. If the
feafon be favourable, the land may be harrowed feveral
times, and as many crops of weeds'deftroyed.
L T U R E. 59
A light fpungy foil can hardly get too much harrov/*
ing; for the more it is harrowed, it becomes the firmer.
But if the foil be ftiff, the lefs harrowing it gets, the
better, provided the purpofes propofed can be anfwered.
The common method of harrowing after the feed is
fown, is firft along-the ridges, then acrofs, and then a-
long again. When the ridges are flat, they may be har¬
rowed either along or acrofs ; and the work may be be¬
gun or ended either way. But when the ridges are
deep, it is improper to begin by harrowing acrofs, her
caufe too much of the feed will be drawn into the fur¬
rows.
Of the Roller.
The roller is intended for fmoothingthe furface, and
making the land firmer. Rollers are fometimes made of’
done, fometimes of wood, and fometimes of iron : but
the only eflential difference of rollers lies in their weight.
As rollers, in different circumdances, require to be
lighter and heavier, they are generally condrudied fo
that their weight can either be augmented or diminiftied.
The common roller, in turning, is very fevere upon
the cattle, for it does not move oh its axis, but is drag¬
ged along the furface. To remove this inconvenience,
a roller has lately been condrufted with adivifion in the
middle, as if two rollers were joined together. In
turning, both parts of this roller move round their axis,
the one forward, and the other back.
Of Rolling.
Rolling is pra&ifed with advantage, both on land
lying in grafs, and in tillage. It prefles down mole¬
hills, fmooths the furface, and makes pafkire-grafs dool,
aqd grow thicker.
Rolling upon Hud .in tillage, not only Smooths the fur¬
face, but breaks "clods that the harrow cannot reduce.
In a light foil, the roller fhould be applied immediately
after the Red is fown; it is peculiarly ufeful to this
kind of foil, by condenfing and making it firmer.
Of Sowing.
It fs remarked by farmers, that the corn, which is ear-
lied fown is in general (boned ripe. However, as this
operation depends on the nature of the weather, and a
number of other circumdanees, no precife time can be
fixed for performing it.
The practice of fowing wheat, oats, barley, &c. at
different times of the year, feems not to depend fo much
on the different natures of thefe grains, as on the incon-
vcniencies which would attend the fowing them all at the
fame time. It may however be obferved, that wheat,
the.only grain in this .country which is fown before win¬
ter, fhbuld be fown as early as poff.ble, that its roots and
leaves may be put forth before the frod comes on.
The mod common method of fowing is by the hand.
This method requires great (kill and addrefs in the fower:
For, at the fame time that he gives his arm a circular
motion, to call the feed with diength, he mud open his
* hand
60 A G R I C
hand gradually, that it may not fall in aheap, but be
properly fcattered ,and fpread. It is remarkable, that
■good lowers, by the force of habit, take their handful
out of the (beet fo very exactly, that they will fow any
quantity of feed on an acre, according as it is defigned
to be thinner or thicker. But this dexterity in a few
fowers, is itfelf an objeftion to the method of fowing
by tire hand; becaufe long practice and obfervation are
neceffary to make a good lower : This remark is too well
juft hied by experience; for good fowers are extremely
rare,. and, in fome places of the country, hardly to be
got. Befides, in fowing by the hand, efpecially when
the land is uneven, the feed rebounds on the clods, .falls
into the cavities, and often the greateft part of it is col¬
lected in the furrows.
Different plants require to be fown at different depths.
The fame feeds, however, may be laid deeper in light
than in ftrong foils. Wheat requires to be placed two
inches and a half or three inches below the furface:
And it may be laid down as a general maxim in fowing,
that fmall feeds fjiould always be placed nearer the fur-
face than fuch as are larger. Belides the unequal di-
ftribution of the feed when fown by the hand, too large
a quantity of it may be ufed; for, as it is placed at dif¬
ferent depths, that which is too deep never comes up,
and that which lies on the furface, which may be obfer-
ved on the heft harrowed land, is eat up by the birds.
When feed is fown thin, and placed at equal diftances by
a drill, a leffer quantity of it, by leaving room to fpread
and .branch out, will produce even a better crop than a
larger quantity fown irregularly by the hand. The faCt
- has been confirmed by repeated experiments both in our
own country and in France,
Sect. VI. Of the Culture of par¬
ticular Plants.
Of the Culture of Wheat.
Though wheat be the mod valuable grain that is
cultivated in Scotland, there are many places where it
cannot be fown with advantage; for it requires not only
a rich foil, but a warm climate.
The Englifh writers mention about 13 or 14 different
kinds of wheat; but in Scotland we feldom ufe more
than two, viz. the white and the red wheat. The laft
is reckoned the moft hardy plant, and fucceeds in fome
foils and climates where the white kind fails. Bearded
'wheat is ufed in fome places. This is likewife a hardy
plant, and is not fo apt to lodge, or to be fhaken out by
the wind, as the other kinds. It fucceeds very well in
wet land, and the grain produces a great quantity of
flour. \
The white wheat moft commonly ufed in Scotland, is
not a particular fpecies, but a mixture of all the fpecies
cultivated in England. This mixture is probably occa-
fioned by want of care in providing ourfelves with fo¬
reign feed. It is found by experience, that, in this
U L T U R E.
country at leaft, wheat degenerates; for which reafon a
frefh fupply is every year brought from the Englifh gra¬
naries, which generally confifts of a mixture of all the
kinds. Nowit is at leaft very probable, that thefe dif¬
ferent kinds of wheat require different foils; and there¬
fore the farmer fliould endeavour to provide himfelf an¬
nually with a quantity of unmixed wheat, of fuch kinds
as are found to fucceed belt in Scotland.
Wheat is commonly fown either upon land that has
been fummer-fall owed, or after a crop of peafe. In the
latter cafe, the feed cannot be fown till October; but in
the former, it is generally fown in Auguft. However,
in Scotland, we fow wheat from the beginning of Auguft
till the middle of November. Some have tried fowing
wheat in the fpring; but the plants were neither fo vi¬
gorous, nor the grain fo large, as thofe that were fown
in autumn. The fowing of oats in autumn has likewife
been tried; but, though the crop was bulky, the quan¬
tity of grain was not in proportion. Upon the whole,
the month of Odtober feems to be the moft proper time
for fowing wheat; when it is either earlier or later, it is
fubjedt to a number of dangers.
The quantity ufually fown upon a Scots acre, is from
three to live lirlots, Linlithgow meafure, which is the
meafure always meant in this treatife. The proper quan¬
tity, however, muft always depend upon the fituation of
the land: in proportion as it is clean and rich, a fmaller
quantity of feed is requifite; and in proportion as it is
poor and full of weeds, a larger quantity becomes necef¬
fary.
A wet bed is moft-proper for wheat-feed. In the
month of Auguft, or even the beginning of September, it
is dangerous to fow, if there be not as much moifture in
the land as to make the feed vegetate, efpecially if the feed
has been fteeped in brine, and dried with lime. But
though the danger be great in fowing when the land is
very dry, yet the beft lituation of land for receiving feed
is when it contains no more moifture than is fufficient to
make the feed vegetate.
When wheat-land is light, or well reduced by fal¬
lowing, the feed Ihould be ploughed in, or the land al¬
lowed to lie fome time after it is ploughed before the
wheat be fown. By this the land acquires a degree of
firmnefs before the harrows go upon it, and the feet of
the cattle are prevented from prefling the feed too deep
into it.
Wheat-land Ihould be ploughed fo as to raife the
ridges higher in the crown than is neceffary on other oc-
cafions, in order to prevent it from being damaged by wa¬
ter : If the ridges are made narrower than ordinary, the
fame end will be ferved, becaufe the water finds its way
more eafily to the furrows. Hence the old pradlice in
Scotland, of cleaving for peafe, and gathering for wheat,
was well founded.
When the wheat is fown, and the land harrowed, the
field ftiould be carefully water-furrowed; and if there
be ridges at the ends for the ploughs to turn upon in
ploughing, a water-furrow fliould likewife be drawn be¬
twixt them and the ridges, and the communication be¬
twixt thefe and the furrows opened up.
Of.
A G n I c
u
Of the Culture of Rye.
Rye is a winter-grain, and thrives very well on land
that is improper for wheat. As there is hardly a good
market for this grain in Scotland, it is but little cultiva¬
ted. In fome places, the land is prepared for it by a
fallow, and good crops are reaped in this way. It may
be fown in Odtober, November, or early in the fpring.
it may be fown after peafe or barley; but it is improper
to fow it after wheat or oats, as this would encourage
the growth of root-weeds, and greatly exhauft the land.
Rye is fometimes fown as a grafs-feed. If it be fown
with this view in September, upon a well-prepared fal¬
low, it will afford good feeding for fheep in March and
April; and after it is cut down, the land may be plough¬
ed, and fown with barley. This practice, however, will
not anfwer in wet land.
Of the Culture of Barley.
There are four kinds of barley ufed in Scotland,
the common barley, the Lincolnfhire barley, the High¬
land barley, more commonly called rough bear, and the
Thanet.
Thefe different kinds are fown at different feafons.
The Lincolnfhire barley may be fown any time during
the winter, or in the fpring; the common barley and
Thanet may be fown in April, the beginning of May,
or even later; and the rough bear may be fown in May,
or the beginning of June: but the precife time of fow-
ing muft be determined by the weather and the fituation
of the land. When the feafon is favourable, the land
free from weeds, and not too wet, Lincolnfhire barley
may be fown in February, and the other kinds fooner
than the periods above mentioned.
When barley is fown in winter, or early in tire fpring,
the land ought to be ploughed fome time before; but
when fown late in the fpring, or in the beginning of fum-
mer, it ought to be fown immediately after it is plough¬
ed. In winter, or early in the fpring, land is in no dan¬
ger of becoming too dry; but in fummer, land is ve¬
ry liable to become too dry for the purpofes of vegeta¬
tion. The farmer fhould therefore endeavour to have
all his feed fown before the feafon be too far advanced.
The quantity of barley fown on an acre is from two
to four firlots. When the land is clean and rich, twm
firlots are fufficient; but when it is infefted with weeds,
a larger quantity is neceflary.
Barley has tender roots, and is not able to pufh them
far in quell of fopd; it is therefore rrecellary to bring
land deltined for barley into good tilth, and to enrich it
either by manures or frequent ploughings. Barley is
often fown upon land that has been fallowed, or after a
crop of peafe. In fome places it is fown after a crop of
oats; and fometimes it is repeated for two or three years
fnccedively upon the fame land.
When barley is to be fown upon fallow, in IlifF land
not much infefted with annual weeds, it Ihould be drefled
in November in the fame manner as for wheat; fo that
Lincolnfhire barley may be fown, if the winter be favour-
Vol. I. No. 3. ' 3
L T U R E. • 61
able, or fpring barley upon the winter-furrow, if the
feafbn proves unfavourable. But when barley is to be
fown after v/heat, peafe, or oats, the land Ihould be
ploughed as foon after harvdt as poffible, and laid up in
fuch a manner as to be bell expofed to the air and frolf,
and to fecure it againit damage from rain. To anfwer
thefe purpofes, barley-land is fometimes ribbed at this
feafon : But ribbing Itirs only a fmall quantity of the foil;
and therefore it is better to gather it into narrow ridges-
of four or fix furrows each, and to make proper drains
for carrying off the w'ater. As the firll ploughing for
barleyJand is defigned to cover the flubble, increale the
vegetable food, and keep the land dry, it need not be
very deep, but ought to be as broad as poflible, provided
it be clean ploughed.
If it be prcpofed to dung barley-land, the dung may
be laid on during the winter-froll, and ploughed in as foon
as the land is in proper condition. When the dunging is
delayed till immediately before the laft ploughing, or
feed-furrow, the land, efpecially if it be of a lliff na¬
ture, is in danger of being battered fo as to rife in large-
clods when ploughed.
In fleering, the ploughing fhould be as deep as tire
plough can go, and the foil allows : For by deep plough¬
ing at this feafon, part of the earth that has been expo-
fed to the air through the winter, and part of it turned
up by the ordinary ploughing, are mixed together for the
nourifhment of the crop. In fleering, the furrows
fhould not be fo broad as in the former ploughing; on
the contrary, the narrower they are the better. Crofs-;
ploughing is very proper at this feafon, if the land be fo
dry as to allow it.
After fleering, the land fhould be well harrowed. It
makes the weeds fpring, retains the fap, and, if the land
be tolerably dry, takes out the roots of the quickening-:
grafs. But, if the land be in no danger of lofing the
fap, the harrowing may be delayed for fome time after it
is ploughed; for by this method a greater number of
weeds are deflroyed.
Though, in general, frequent ploughings are benefi-.
cial, yet ploughing when the land is wet is deflrudive.
When the fpring is wet, the barley-land in many places
is not in a proper condition to be fown. In this cafe,
the fleering-furrow mult be omitted, and the land fhould
get the feed-furrow as foon as it is in a proper condi-
When barley is to be fown a fecond time upon the
fame land, without any other crop intervening, two'
ploughings are fuffioient.
As our fummers in Scotland are. fometimes very wet,'
barley-land fhould.be water-furrowed, and dreffed up in
the fame manner as wheat-land.
Of the Culture of Oats.
The oat is a very hardy plant, and its roots are
flrong, which enables it to procure food where many
other plants would ftarve; and hence the pradtice of gi¬
ving lefs culture to oats than to any other grain.
There are three kinds of oats ufed in .Scotland, the
white, the black, and the grey. The white i-s the molt
f Q_ common.
6i AGRICULTURE.
common, and ufed in all the low countries ; the black is
the hardieft, and is ufed in the cold hilly countries ; and
the grey is often fown with fuccefs upon light gravel or
fand. The white is again divided into two kinds, called
cold feed and hot feed. There is fcarcely any difference
in appearance betwixt thefe; but the hot feed ripens
eight or ten days before the cold. Experience mud de¬
termine which of them ought to be chofen for feed.
Though the oat be a hardy plant, and does not eafily
degenerate, yet the changing of feed is univerfally al¬
lowed to be a good pradlice. This change fhould always
be made from a warm foil to a cold, and from a cold to
a warm.
Oats are often fown upon grafs-ground newly broken
up, or, which is the fame thing, upon lee once plough¬
ed. They are likcwife often fown after barley, feme-
times after wheat, fometimes upon fallow, and fome-
times they are repeated for feveral years fucceffrvely upon
the fame land.
In ploughing lea for oats, when the land is foft and
mellow, the plough fhould go as fhallow as poffible ; and
the earth of the furrows fhould be fet upon its edges, to
allow the harrows to have the greater impreffion in tearing
it. But when the land is ffifF, or the turf very tough,
it is neceffary to plough deeper, and to turn the turf ful¬
ly over, fo that the harrows may raife a kind of mold
upon its back to fill up the hollows, and to nourifh the
feeds. When oats are to be fown upon lee, the land
ought to be ploughed early in winter, that it may receive
the greater benefit from the air and froft.
It is ufual to lime lea-ground intended for oats. This
is a very good cuftom; for lime promotes the corruption
of the grafs-roots, by which the land is fboner reduced.
It is likewife common to fpread the lime upon the fward
fome time before the land is ploughed : This is alfo very
proper; for the lime is intangled in the fward, and is not
fo apt to penetrate too deep.
Oats are generally fown after barley ; and the land is
ploughed as foon as the wheat-feed is made, and the bar¬
ley-land has got the firft furrow. The fliff land, and
land in danger of being damaged by wetnefs, fhould be
iirft ploughed, to give the one the benefit of the v/inter-
frofl, and to put the other out of danger. It is likewife
an advantage to light and dry land to be ploughed early
in the feafon, as it makes the flubble rotfooner, and ex-
pofes the foil longer to the air.
It was formerly obferved,. that oats afe fometimes fown
upon fallow. In the hilly countries, they often fallow the
land that has been in lea for fome years ; and they find
that this pradlice does better than giving it only one
ploughing in the winter before the feed is fown. In the
low countries,, this pradlice of fallowing for oats is found
to fucceed very well. The fallow for oats fhould be ma¬
naged through the fummer in the fame manner as if for
barley or wheat. Before winter, it ought to get the
laft furrow, and be laid up in proper ridges,, to preferve
it dry during the winter.
• Oats may be fown in any of tile winter-months,, or in
the month of March. Some people have fown oats ib
early as the beginning of November, and have had
good crops. But,, if the land be properly laid up ia-
winter, it is better to delay the fowing till March.
The quantity of oats generally foivn upon an acre, is
from four to five firlots ; and fhould always get a
dry bed.
Of the Culture of Peafe.
The pea is a grain very different from any of thofe
already mentioned. A crop of it is not fo valuable,
though it is much ufed in fome places for bread.
The ftraw of peafe is reckoned better for feeding hor-
fes than the ftraw of any other grain. A crop of peafe
does not require fuch a quantity of nourifhment as a crop
of any of the other grains mentioned above. When the
crop is good, the ftraw covers the ground, and deftroys
all the fmall weeds by depriving them of a free commu¬
nication with the air. Peafe likewife minutely divide
the particles of the foil; befides, they pufh their roots
much deeper than any of the white grains, and extra6t
part of their ndurifhment from below the reach of the
plough.
There are two kinds of peafe cultivated in Scotland,
the white and the grey. The white is moft common,
and confifts generally of a mixture of feveral kinds. All
of thefe kinds feem to be fpecies of the pea cultivated
in our gardens. The grey pea feems to be a fpecies of
the vetch or tare. This is the hardieft plant of the two,
and thrives on foils where the white pea does not fucceed.
The ftraw of the grey peafe, and the peafe them-
felves, are better for horfes than thofe of the white.
The farmer Ihould therefore cultivate this pea where the
other does not thrive, although the value of the grain be-
inferior.
The white pea, like the okts, is divided into hot
feed and cold feed. The fowing of the hot feed may be
delayed three weeks after the cold feed is fown, and yet
the peafe will come as foon to maturity.
The time of fowing is from the firft of February to the
end of April. The early fown peafe have the beft chance
to produce a crop of corn, and the late fown to produce
. a crop of ftraw. However, when the land is clean and
in good heart, the peafe may be fown early; becaufe, on,
foch land, a good crop both of corn and ftraw may be
expe<ited. But if the land be foul or wet, the fowing
of peafe Ihould be delayed as long as poflible; becaufe
on fuch land the crop is more precarious, and the failing
of a crop of peafe gives fuch encouragement to weeds,
as to endanger the following crops likewife. In fuch a
cafe, to prevent the bad confequences that may follow,
the crop ftioald be ploughed in; for when a bad crop of
peafe is allowed to Hand, it does more harm to the land
than all the value of the crop.
The quantity of peafe fown upon an acre, is from 4
to 5 £ firlots. If the intention of fowing peafe be to ob¬
tain ftraw, and enrich the land, they Ihould be thick
fown ; becaufo in that cafe they have a better chance to
deftroy the weeds, and to cover the furface. But when
the principal defign is to have a crop of corn, they fhould
be thinner fown; for, when thin fown, they have more
air, and fill better.
Peafe are commonly fown after oats or barley, and;
fometimes.
A G R I C U L T U R E.
femetimes after wheat. Seldom mere than one plough¬
ing is given to peafe, and they are ufually fown imme¬
diately after it. The realbn of this prablice is, that
the feed may be better covered; for the {poner that a-
ny grain is fown after ploughing, it is always the deep¬
er covered. If rain falls foon after peafe are lown, it
makes them fwell and come above ground, and then they
are in danger of fplitcing, and of being dellroyed by
vermin.
Sometimes peafe are fown and ploughed in. This an-
fwers very well in light land, particularly after a crop
of barley, the culture of which opens the foil.
Land defigned for peafe is generally cloven. This is
a good practice when the ridges are fteep, as all of them
were formerly. As wheat or barley are commonly fown
after peafe, die land mull be ploughed before winter. Ga-
diering is the mod; proper way of ploughing before win¬
ter, and this follows belf after cleaving. But if the ridges
be not high, calling.is the belt method of ploughing for
peafe ; or, if the ridges be flat and narrow, the land may
be ploughed in the ordinary way, reverfmg the former
ploughing, and turning the furrows into the crowns.
Though peafe are generally the lowelt-priced grain, yet
fpmetimes they rife to a great price, when the prices of
other grains are moderate. This makes the laving of
feed, an article of great importance. ByLowing in drills,
one flrlot will ferve for an. acre as compleatly as four in
the broad call-way: But the advantages of drilling fall
to be confidered afterwards.
Of the Culture of Beans.
What has been faid with regard to the culture of
peafe, may be applied to beans. However, it is necef-
fary. to obferye, that the bean puflies its roots further
down than the pea; and therefore requires a deeper
foil. The lands in Scotland, where beans are moll com¬
monly fown, and where they fucceed belt, are deep and
wet clays.
In fome lands, the crops of beans are very great, and
almolt as valuable as any grain. There is no ctop fuc-:
ceeds better in the drill-jiuibandry than a crop of beans.
Of the Culture of Rye-grafs,
R-YE-grass is the molt common of all the artificial
graffes cultivated in Scotland, and not the lealt valu¬
able. It is a fibrous-rooted plant, and binds the foil ;
this circmnflance has led many to think, that it greatly
knpoverifhes land. However, the culture of this graft
is attended with feveral peculiar advantages. It deltroys.
weeds, particularly the qaickening-graft, and grows up¬
on foils which will not anfwer for any of the other, arti-
$c:al grafles. A (hallow, wet, fpungy foil, or dne
which has a mixture of moft in it, is unfit for clover of
every kind ; but experience (hows, that rye-graft, when
qnmixed with clover, will fucceed upon any of thefe foils.
Rye-graft is ufually fown along with a crop of barley
or oats. When fown along with barley, the field Ihould
be rolled, or well harrowed, to prelcrve the fap at the
<Ly feafon of the barley-feed. This .precaution is. not.
fo neceflary, when the rye-grafs is fown along with oats ;
becaufe the land on which oats are fown is generally
firmer, the fowing feafon is earlier, and confequently
not fo liable to be too dry.
This graft feldom hurts the crop of corn. On the
contrary, when the foil is loofe and open, it makes it
firm, and prevents the corn from lodging.
Though the common method is to fow rye-grafs with
corn, yet, when the land is poor, it is better to. fow it
by itfelf, and Hill better to fummer-fallqw, and fow it
in autumn. But, as the land by fallowing is made open
and loofe, and as the ploughing and Towing are near the
rainy feafon, cattle ought not to be allowed to pafture
upon it during the winter, except in the time of hard
frolt. Even when fown in the fpring, the farmer Ihould
not allow much palluring on it, efpeciaUy in wet weather.
But, if fown by itfelf, cattle may fafely palture upon it
in the winter, as the roots, having nothing to obltruct
their progreft, penetrate deeper, and fpread wider, thaa
when any other grain grows along with it. This prac¬
tice, however, can only be followed with fafety in very
clean land; otherwife weeds are apt to rife along with,
it, and prevent the furface from being covered; which
of courfe will keep the foil open.
Rye-graft is fometimes fown for hay,, and fometimes
for pafture. When for hay, from two to four firiots are:
commonly fown upon an acre.
Rye-graft rifes very early in the fpring, and, if the
foil be dry and warm, affords good palture all the win¬
ter. It is very hardy. Hands the froft, and, if continued'
in pallure, does not wear out in many years. The belt
way of managing it is, to eat it down in the fpring.and.
beginning of fummer, and then to let it reft till autumn.
When allowed to get up in furqmer, it runs to feed,
and becomes dilagreeable to the cattle. Befides., by this
method of managing rye-graft, a good crop may be ex¬
pected in autumn.
When properly managed,, rye-graft makes very good
hay; and there is fuch a demand for the feed, that the
farmer is often tempted to let it Hand till the feed is
perfected, and then to threlh it, When this is done,
the hay can never be good ; becaufe the fap is exhaufled,
the Halk becomes dry and withered, and affords little
nourifliment to cattle.. The hay ought therefore to be
always cut before tfie feed ripens. This-practice not on¬
ly makes the befl hay, but is likewife of great advantage
to the land; for, when plants are allowed to perfeC:
their feeds,, the land is much more, exhau/ted, than when
they are cut. before that period.
Of the Culture of Clover.
Though clover.be nfed for the fame purpofes as rye-
graft, it is, however, a plant of a. very different nature.
It has a large-tap-root, which penetrates the foiBperpen¬
dicularly downward, and opens the earth and makes it
free : The roots of clover cannot penetrate the foil, un-
lefs it be free and open. Hence, a dry, open, deep
foil, free from quicken-graft, is the moH proper for this
plant.
There are.foveral kinds of elover cultivated in Scot*
land,.
64 A G R 1C U
land, diPur.guifted by the colour of their flowers, viz.
the red, the v/hitc,'-and th’e ■ yellow'. The red is the
lavgeft plant, has the ftrongeft {talk, arid broadellleaves.
The yellow foraetimes grows id!, but the Italk is fmall.
The white is the fmallel!; plant, and is 1’ometimes called
hop-clover, from the refemblance its flowers bears to thofe
of the hop-
Both the feafons and methods -of fowing clover are
various. Molt of the EngKlh writers recommend the
autumn. It has frequently been tried, at this feafon, in
Scotland without fuccefs. When fown in fpring, it an-
fvvers much better in this country.
The common way of fowing clover, both in Scotland
and England, is along with wheat, oats, or barley, in
the fpring. This method is fometimes attended with
diiadvantages. The clover fometimes hurts the corn,
and the corn the clover. However, thefe difadvantages
are probably more than over-balanced by the corn’s pro-
tedting the clover from drought when very young, which
it is much expofed to, efpecially when fown in the fpring.
As the lodging of corn dellreys all plants that are be¬
low; to prevent this, the corn fown along with clover
ought to be fown thin, and the land made very clean of
weeds.
Sometimes, in a wet feafon, the clover gets a-top of
the corn,- and dellroys the crop. This feidom happens
when it is fown with bailey or w'heat; becaufe it is much
later in the feafon, when fown with barley than when
fown with oats, and therefore is not fo far advanced at
harvell; and the wheat is advanced fo far before the clo¬
ver-feed is fown, that the clover can never get the better
of it. To prevent the clover, then, from hurting the corn,
it may be fown early in the feafon with wheat, or late in
the feafon'with barley. The Thanet barley, from the
ftrength of its roots and (talk, is not fo apt to lodge as
the common barley; and, ,of courfe, it is the moft pro¬
per kind to be fown along with clover. But, as all
kinds of barley are more apt to lodge than oats, and as
the feafon for fowing oats is more proper for fowing clo-
ver than the feafon of fowing barley, the farmer, when
it is equally convenient for him, Ihould prefer the fow¬
ing of clover with oats.
When clover is fown with barley or oats, after thefe
grains are fown, and the land harrowed, the clover-feed
is thin fown, and then the land is again harrowed or
rolled. When the clover is fown with a crop of wheat,
the clover is fown in the fpring, and afterwards the
wheat is rolled. It is common to fow clover-feed with¬
out any preparation given-to the land; but it is better-
to harrow it before fowing. The harrowing does no
harm to the wheat, and it makes the roller cover the feed
more effeiftuaHy. Clover-feed may be fown in the fame
manner amongrt- oats or early-fown barley. Some time
after the corn has come up, the land may be .harrowed,
and the clover fown. If the weather be dry, the dif¬
ferent parts of.the operation Ihould fucceed one another
as quickly as poffible. The harrows Ihould be imme¬
diately followed by. the fower,. and the fower ;by the
roller,, to.prevent the drought from penetrating too deep.
The Englifh writers differ widely as to the quantity
of elover-feed proper .to.be fown on an acre. However,
L T U R E.
the farrtiers in Scotland, Who fow clover with oats or
barley, find, that from xo to 16 lb. of red, Or from
12 to 18 lb. of white clover on the acre, produces a ve¬
ry good crop.
Clover, like rye-grafs, is fometimes fown for hay,
fometimes for pafture, and fometimes for both. The red
clover is the moft proper for hay, the white for pafture ;
and, when both are intended, a mixture of the two an-
fwers heft. When red clover is fown without being
mixed with any other kind, the farmer ought to bring
his land into tillage again in two or three years : For, af¬
ter the fecond year, a crop of this kind of clover is of
little value.
When white clover is fown by itfelf, the farmer mufl:
not exped a crop of hay; for it feidom rifes to fuch a
height as to produce a good crop : But, to balance this,
the field may be kept long in pafhire, as this clover con¬
tinues till wore out by the natural grafs of the foil.
When a mixture of the two are fovvn, fome crops of
hay may be taken, and then the land may be allowed to
lie forae years longer for pafture. The red clover af- ,
fords the crops of hay ; and the white remains till the'
natural grafs rifes. In this cafe, there is commonly
fown upon the acre, from 8 to 12 lb. of red clover,
and from 6 to 8 of white. But thefe proportions may
be varied according to the judgment of the farmer.
In Scotland, feidom more than one crop of hay in the
feafon fucceeds. The fecond crop is commonly fo late,
that it is veiy difficult to get the hay properly made. It
may therefore be paftured on, or cut green for cattle.
When clover is cut green for cattle, it is a proper way
to feed them upon a field that needs dung. This me¬
thod is preferable to feeding them in ftalls ; it faves the
expence of carrying out the dung, and procures to the'
land the benefit of the urine, which is a very rich ma-
Before concluding this article, it muft be obferved,
that red clover, while green, is dangerous to black cat¬
tle and fheep, when firft given them, efpecially if wet'
with dew or rain. They ought therefore to be allowed
it only fparingly at firft, and brought to it by degrees/
After being accuftomed to it for a few days, the danger
is over, and they may be allowed to ufe as much of it
as they pleafe.
Of the Culture of Clover mixed ivith Rye-grafs.^
Red clover makes the beft green forage for cattle.-
An acre of it will maintain more cattle than three or
four acres of common grafs : But then it is not fo proper
for hay. Clover-hay is very troubldbme in making, and
is not reckoned fo good for feeding as fome other kinds
of hay. It likewife hurts the land, by encouraging the
growth of quickening-grafs. To remedy thefe duadvand
tages, it is common to fow rye-grafs along with it. Clo¬
ver, when mixed with rye-grafs, is eatier made into
hay; the hay itfelf is much better; and the rye-gra6,
by covering the furface, prevents the growth, of the
quickening-grafs. The quantity fown upon the acre in
this way is from 8 to 12 lb. of clever, and from i to 3
fixlots of jye-grafs> -
A G li I C U
Of the Culture of St-Foin.
The writers on agriculture reckon this grafs prefer¬
able to clover in many refpeds: They fay, that it pro¬
duces a larger crop; that it does net hurt cattle when
eaten green; that it makes better hay ; that it continues
four times longer in the ground; and that it will grow
on land that will bear no other crop. Thefe are great
advantages: But, as we have fo little of that kind of
grafs in Scotian^, it cannot be expected that any direc¬
tions can be given concerning the manner of cultivating
it, founded upon experience. We muft therefore confine
ourfelves to fuch fads as are mentioned by authors of the
belt credit.
St-foin has a very long tap-root, which is able to
pierce very hard earth. The roots grow very large, and
the larger they are, they penetrate to the greater depth;
and hence it may be concluded, that this graft, when it
thrives well, receives a great part of its nourilhment
from below the Jiaple of the foil: of courfe, a deep dry foil
is beft for the culture of St-foin. When plants draw
their nourilhment from that part of the foil that is neat
the furface, it is not of much confequence whether their
number be great or fmall. But the cafe is very different
when the plants receive their food, not only near, but
alfo deep below the furface. Befides, plants that fhoot
their roots deep are often fupplied with moifture, when
thqfe near the furface are parched with drought.
To render the plants of St-foin vigorous, it is necef-
fary that they be fown thin. The belt method of doing
this is by a drill; becaufe, when fown in this manner,
not only the weeds, but alfo the fupernumerary plants,
can eafily be removed. It is feveral years before St-foin
comes to its full ftrength; and the number of plants fuf-
ficient to Hock a field, while in this imperfedt Hate, will
make but a poor crop for the firll year or two. It is
therefore neceffary that it be fown in fuch a manner
as to make it eafy to take up plants in fuch numbers, and
in fuch order, as always to leave in the field the proper
number in their proper places. This can only be done
with propriety, by fowing the plants in rows by a drill.
Suppofing a field to be drilled in rows at ten inches di-
ftance, the partitions may be hand-hoed, and the rows
drelfed in fuch a manner as to leave a proper number of
plants. In this fituation the field may remain two years ;
then one fourth of the rows may be taken out in pairs,
in fuch a manner as to make the beds of fifty inches,
with fix rows in each, and intervals of thirty inches,
which may be ploughed. Next year, another fourth of
the rows may be taken out in the fame manner, fo as to
leave double rows with partitions of ten inches, and in¬
tervals of thirty: All of which may be hoed at once or
alternately, as it may be found moft convenient.
The great quantity of this grafs which the writers on
this fubjedt affure us may be raifed upon an acre, and the
excellency and great value of the hay made of it, Ihould
induce farmers to make a complete trial of it, and even
to ufe the fpade in place of the hoe, or hoe-plough, if
necelfary.
The plants taken up from a field of .St-foin may be fet
You. I. No. 3. ' 3
L T U R E. 65
in another field; and if the tranfplanting of this graft
fucceeds as well as the tranfplanting of lucern has done
with Mr Lunin de Chateauvieux, the trouble and ex¬
pence will be fufficiently recompenfed by die largefiefs of
the crops. In tranfplanting, it is neceffary to cut off great
part of the long tap-root: this will prevent it from ftri-
king very deep into the foil, and make it pufli out large
roots in a Hoping diredtion from the cut end of the tap¬
root. St-foin managed in this manner, will thrive even
on (hallow land that has a wet bottom, provided it.be not
overftocked with plants.
Whoever inclines to try the culture of this graft in
Scotland, fitould take great pains in preparing the land,
and making it as free from weeds as poilible.
Of the Culture of Lucern.
The writers on agriculture, ancient as well as mo¬
dern, beftow the higheft encomiums upon this grafs, as
affording excellent hay, and producing very large crops.
Lucern remains at lead: ten or twelve years in the ground,
and produces about eight tens of hay upon the Scots
acre. There is but little of it cultivated in Scotland.
However, it has. been tried in feveral parts of this coun¬
try; and it is found, that, when the feed is good, it
comes up very well, and Hands the winter-froH. But
the chief thing that prevented this grafs from being more
ufed in this country, is the difficulty of keeping the foil
open, and free from weeds. In a few years the furface
becomes fo hard, and the turf fo ftrong, that it deftroys
the lucern before the plants have arrived at their greated
perfedh'on: fo that we cannot hope to cultivate lucern
with fuccefs, unleft we fall upon fome method of de-
droying the natural grafs, and prevent the furface from
becoming hard and impenetrable. This cannot be done
effeftually by any other means than horfe-hoeing. This
method was fird propofed by Mr Tull, and afterwards
praftifed fucceftfully by M. de Chateauvieux near Genev'a.
It may be of ufe therefore to give a view of that gen¬
tleman’s method of cultivating lucern.
He does not mention any thing particular as to the
manner of preparing the land; but only obfcrves in ge¬
neral, that no pains (hould be fparedin preparing it. He
tried the fowing of lucern both in rows upon the beds
where it was intended to Hand, and likewife the fowing
it in a nurfery, and afterwards tranfplanting it into the
beds prepared for it. He prefers tranfplanting; becaufe,
when tranfplanted, part of the tap-root is cut off, and
the plant (hoots out a number of lateral branches from
the cut part of the root, which makes it fpread its roots
nearer the furface, and confequently renders it more eafily
cultivated: befides, this circumdance adapts it to a (hal¬
low foil, in which, if left in its natural date, it would
not grow.
The tranfplanting of lucern is attended with many ad¬
vantages. The land may be prepared in the fummer for
receiving the plants from the nurfery in autumn; by which
means the field mud be in a much better fituation than if
the feed had been fown upon it in the fpring. By tranf¬
planting, the rows can be made more regular, and the
intended didances more exa&ly obferved; and confe-
f R quently
66 AGRICULTURE.
quently the hoeing can be performed more perfe&ly, and
with lefs expence. M. Chateauvieux likewife tried the
lucern in Angle beds three feet wide, with Angle rows ;
in beds three feet nine inches wide, with double rows j
and in beds four feet three inches wide, with triple rows.
The plants in the Angle rows were Ax inches afunder,
and thofe in the double and triple rows were about eight
or nine inches. In a courfe of three years he found, that
a Angle row produced more than a triple row of the fame
length. The plants of lucern, when cultivated by
tranfplantation, Ihould be at lead Ax inches afunder, to
allow them room for extending their crowns.
He further obferves, that the beds or ridges ought to
be raifed in the middle; that a fraall trench, two or
three inches deep, Ihould be drawn in the middle ; and
that the plants ought to be fet in this trench, covered
with earth up to the neck. He fays, that if the lucern
be fown in Ipring, and in a warm foil, it will be ready
for tranfplanting in September; that, if the weather be
too hot and dry, the tranfplanting Aiould be delayed till
October ; and that, if the weather be unfavourable during
both thefe months, this operation mud be delayed till fpring.
He further dir efts, that the plants • flrould be carefully
taken put of the nurfery, fo as not to damage the roots ;
that the roots be left only about Ax or feven inches long;
that the green tops be cut off within about two inches of
the crown; that they be put into water as foon as taken
up, there to remain till they are planted; and that they
ihould be planted with a planting-dick, in the fame man¬
ner as. cabbages.
He does not give particular direftions as to the times
of horfe-hoeing; but only fays in general, that the in¬
tervals diould be dirred once in the month during the
whole time that the lucern is in a growing date. He
likewife obferves, that great care ought to be taken not
to differ any weeds to grow among the plants, at lead
for the Ard two or three years; and for this purpofe,
that the rows, as well as the edges of the intervals
where the plough cannot go, ihould be weeded by the
hand.
Of the Culture of Potatoes.
The potatoe is one of the mod ufeful roots that are
cultivated in this country, and is raifed in a very differ¬
ent manner from any of the other roots. It has a num¬
ber of eyes in it, each of which produce a feparate plant.
The larged potatoes are the bed for feed; becaufe, when
cut according to the eyes, and properly fown, the plants
are not in danger of crowding each other. The plant
fends out roots in every direftion to a ccnAderable di-
ftance, and upon thefe the potatoes are formed.
There are feveral kinds both of the white and red po¬
tatoes. They fucceed bed in a light dry foil; and
though there be but a fmall mixture of loam in it, if to¬
lerably rich and properly cultivated, it feldom fails to
produce a good crop. But a good crop is not to be ex-
pefted from a diff wet foil, unlefs it be laid, up in ridges
fo as to make it dry, and a confiderable quantity of dung
laid on to render it open.
When the crop of potatoes is the chief point in view.
the land fhould have a ploughing before winter, efps-
cially if the foil be not very free and open. If dung be
neceffary, the proper time for laying it on is before this
ploughing. When the potatoes are to be planted, which
may be done any time in March or beginning of April,
the land mud again be ploughed in narrow.furrows, and
the potatoes dropped into every fecond furrow. But if
the land be open and very loofe, they may be dropped
into every furrow; and as the plough opens the furrow
for the fecond row, it buries the Ard row at a proper
depth. The furrow ftiould not be verv deep; and two
horfes are fufficient. It is better in this cafe to make
the horfes go a-bread than in a line; becaufe, as one of
them only goes in the furrow, the potatoes are not fo liable
to be hurt or difplaced. This method of planting them
by the plough is greatly preferable to the dibble or plant¬
ing-dick.
When a fmall quantity is intended to be cultivated,
they may be planted with the fpade. A fmall crofs-
trench or furrow Aiould be opened with the fpade at the
end of the ridge. Into this furrow drop the potatoes
at proper didances; and, in making the next furrow,
the roots laid in the Ard will be covered in the fame man¬
ner as is done by the plough.
According to the didance of the rows made by the
plough, the didance of the plants in the rov/s fliould be
regulated: One plant in a fquare foot is fufHcient to al¬
low them to be properly hoed. When planted in every
fecond furrow ploughed narrow, the rows will be about
12 or 14 inches afunder. The plants may be placed at
the fame didance in the rows.
It is unneceffary. to harrow the land after the po¬
tatoes are planted: This operation may be delayed till
the weeds appear, which gives the farmer an opportunity
of dedroying them without any additional labour. Tho’
potatoes be planted early in the fpring, or even before
winter, they do not come up till May. Before that time
the weeds are far advanced; and, if they be not dedroyed
by the harrows, the land mud be hoed. Indeed, the
goodnefs of the crop depends fo much upon preventing
the weeds from coming to any height, that it is necefla-
ry to hoe potatoes frequently. If the rows be wide, a
kind- of bread-hoe may be ufed to throw the earth a lit¬
tle on each Ade, by which it will be raifed about the
plants.
When two or three plants are in one piece, as often
happens in light land, they diould be cleaned with the
hand at the root, and only one dalk left to each plant.
This not only gives air to the roots, but alfo prevents
much of the nouridiment from going into the dalks.
When the hulk that contains the feed, or the apple,
as it is commonly called, is completely formed, the dalks
may be cut down and given to cows. Milk-cows have
been tried with this food ; they eat it very freely, and it
gives no bad flavour to the milk.
The time of taking up potatoes is commonly regulated
by the market.- But, if nothing be in view but the
largenefs of the crop, they ought to dand till Oftober,
or as long as they can be conveniently taken up before the
frod fets in. The mod expeditious method of taking
them up is by the plough: Eight or nine perfons to
attend
T U R E.
6^
A G R I C U
attend the plough are fufficient. After the field is once
ploughed, it ought to be harrowed, by which fome of
the potatoes will be raifed ; and, when thefe are gather¬
ed, it ihould be ploughed a fecond time.
Of the Culture of Turnips.
Turnips hare been long cultivated in England, and,
in fome places, are efteemed one of the mod valuable
crop's that can be raifed. The trials made in Scotland
have been very fuccefsful, which gives great encourage¬
ment to proceed.
The goodnefs of the crop depends more on the open-
nefs of the foil than its richnefs. Land newly broke up
is particularly proper for turnips. Though this kind of
land be naturally poor, yet, with the afliftance of a lit¬
tle dung, it feldom fails to produce an excellent crop.
The land intended for turnips ihould be ploughed and
laid up in ridges before winter, that it may have the
benefit of the froft. This winter-ploughing, however,
is unneceflary when the land is dry and light: The
fpring is early enough for this kind of land. It may
get a fecond ploughing in the end of May, and a third
in the middle or end of June, when the feed is to be
fown. Though three ploughings are here mentioned,
no particulur number is intended; for. the land ought to
be ploughed over and over, till it be thoroughly pul-
verifed. If dung be ufed, it ihould be well rotted, and
laid on before the laft ploughing.
Turnip-feed is ufually fown by the hand; and about
half a pound is fufficient for an acre. It ihculd be mix¬
ed with fand, that it may be fcatteredthe more equally.
But lowing by a drill is better thanLowing by the hand,
as, in this way, the plants can be more eaiily hoed, and
thinned. Turnips ihould be hoed as foon as the plants
can be eafily diftinguiihed; for they grow quickly,
and, if they meet with any obftruftion from weeds,
they are apt to become fickly; and, when this happens,
they can never be recovered fo as to produce a good
crop.
Turnips may be cultivated with great fuccefs by the
new huibandry. They have been tried in fingle, double,
and triple rows, and, in alleys, from four to fix feet
wide, according to the fituation of the land. The poor¬
er the land is, or the more difficult to be reduced, the
alleys ought to be the wider. After the ridges are form¬
ed, the turnip ihould be drilled upon the crowns; and,
as foon as they come up, and are pail all danger from
the fly, they ihould be borfe-hoed.
The turnip is proper food, either for ffieep or black
cattle. When the land is dry and needs manure, the
iheep may be folded on it: But the fold muft be removed
every day; for it is improper to allow them to eat more
at once than they can confume in that time. When
the land is wet, or very rich, the turnip may be pulled,
and the fheep fed with them on another field that needs
manure. But, when defigned for black cattle, they
muft be pulled up and given them, either in ftalls or
in another field, as the farmer ihall find meft conve¬
nient.
L
Of the Culture of Carrot.
The carrot is but rarely cultivated in our fields : In¬
deed, the prefent market does not encourage the cultiva¬
tion of this plant. But they have lately been found to be
excellent food for horfes; they eat them greedily, and
are well fed by them. Carrots are not difficult to raife;
a very fmall field is fufficient, and the trial may eafily be
made by any farmer, at a very fmall expence.
The beft crops of carrots, in our gardens, are produ¬
ced by trenching. When the foil is hard below, though
it be well dunged, it does not produce a good crop.
Whenever the roots reach the hard foil, they become
forked, /. e. the roots divide, which prevents them from
growing large. Trenching makes the earth deep, and,
by throwing what was on the furface into the bottom of
the trench, lays good foil below for the roots to extend
themfelves into. Something like this muft be done in
our fields before we can expedl a good crop.
M. de Chateauvieux tried to raife a crop of carrots
by the horfe-hoeing hufbandry, and was very fuccefsful.
He fowed them in beds fix feet broad, on the 4th of
May. He ftirred the alleys, with the fpade on the 15th
and 27th of July, and a third time on the 6th of Septem¬
ber. They were digged up on the 8th of November,
meafured from 18 to 2 J inches in length, and from two
to four in diameter, and weighed from 25 to 33 ounces.
Land that has a hard bottom of clay or till is improper ;
and it is vain to expeft that fuch land can be prepared
for carrots by the plough, without great trouble and ex¬
pence. But, when land has a foft bottom, a good crop
of carrots may be raifed at a fmall expence by horfe-
hoeing.
As the feed, in this country, muft be fown in March,
the land ffiould get a ploughing before winter, and be
laid out in beds or ridges of the breadth propofed when
the carrots are to be fown ; the furrows betwixt thefie
ridges ffiould be made as deep as poffible,. becaufe it is
upon thefe furrows that the rows of carrots are to be
fown. A fecond ploughing in winter fliculd reverfe the
firft, and turn the furrows into crowns; and, before
the carrots are fown, one bout of the plough may raife
the crown of the ridge ftill higher. Upon thefe crowns
the feed muft be fov/n out of the hand, into a fmall
trench, drawn as ftraight as poffible, and covered with a
rake.
When the weeds firft appear, the remaining part of
the ridges may be ploughed out, turning the earth to the
rows, and taking care not to go fo near as to cover the
plants. Before the feed is fown, which is fome time in
March, infteadof ploughing the whole ridge, the plough
ffiould only go once about on the crown, to prevent the
bad effects of too much moifture.
As foon as the plants can be eafily diftinguiffied, they
ffiould be hand-hoed, and thinned where they ftand too
thick; and after this the alleys muft be regularly hoed,
as directed in the culture of turnips.
It is natural to exped, that carrots raifed in this way
ffiould be freer from worms, and much better every
way,
53 A G R I C U
way, than thofc raifed in our gardens, except fuch as are
fown upon newly trenched ground.
Sect. VI. Principles and Advanta¬
ges of the New Husbandry.
The general principles of the new hhibandry may be
rednced to two, viz. the promoting the growth of
plants by hoeing, and the faring of feed; both of
which are equally profitable to the farmer.
But, before illultrating thefe principles and advanta¬
ges, it will be neceffary to defcribe the i nil ruments that
are commonly ufed in cultivating land by this new me¬
thod.
Plate IX. fig. i. is a marking plough. The principal
ufe of this plough is to (height and regulate the ridges.
The firil line is traced by the eye., by means of three
poles, placed in a ftreight line. The plough draws the
firft furrow' in the direction of this line; and, at the
fame time, with the tooth A, fixed in the block of wood
near the end of the crofs-poll or Aider B B, marks the
breadth of the ridge at the diftance intended. The
ploughman next traces the fecond line or rutt made by
the tooth, and draws a fmall furrow along it; and con¬
tinues in this manner till the whole field is laid out in
{freight and eqnidiftant ridges.
—Fig. 2. is a plough for breaking up lee, or turning up
the bottom of land when greatly exhaufted. By its con-
ftru&ion, the width and depth of the furrows can be re¬
gulated to a greater certainty than by any other hitherto
known in this country. Its appearance is heavy ; but
two hbrfes are fafiicient to plough with it in ordinary
free land; and only-four are neceffary in the ftiffeft clay-
foils. This plough is likewife eafily held and tempered.
A, is the fword fixed in the fizers B, which runs thro’
a mortoife at the end of the beam E, and regulates the
depth of the furrow, by raifing or depreffing the beam ;
it is fixed by putting the pin D, through die beam and
fword, and is moveable at E.
—Fig. 3. is a jointed break harrow with 24 teeth fiia-
ped like coulters, and (landing at about an angle of 80
degrees. By this inftrumentthe land is finely pulverifed,
and prepared for receiving the feed from the drill. It
requires four horfes in ftiff, and two in open land. This
harrow is likewife ufed for levelling the ridges ; this is
done by prefling it down by the handles where the ridge
is high, and raifing it up when low.
—Fig. 4. is an angular weeding harrow, which may
follow the break when neceflary. The feven hindmoft
teeth fliould (land at a more acute angle than the reft,
in order to colled! the weeds, which the holder can drop
at pleafure, by raifing the hinder part, which is fixed to
the body of the harrow by two joints.
—Fig. 5. is a pair of harrows with (hafts. This har-
rowis ufed for covering the feed in the drills, the horfe
going in the furrow.
—Fig. 6. is a drill-plough, conftrudled in fuch a man¬
ner as to fow at once two rows of beans, peafe, or wheat.
L T U R E.
This machine is eafily wrought by two horfes. A, is
the happer for containing the feed ; B, circular boxes
for receiving the feed from the happer; C C, two fquare
boxes which receive the feed from fmall holes in the cir¬
cular boxes, as they turn round; and laft of all, the feed
is dropped into the drills through holes in the fquare
boxes, behind the coulters D. The cylinder E fol¬
lows, which, together with the wheel F, regulates the
depth of the coulters, and covers the feed; the harrow G
comes behind all, and covers the feed more completely.
H H, two Aiders, which, when drawn out, prevent the
fefcd from falling into the boxes ; and, I, is a ketch which
holds tire rungs, and prevents the boxes from turning,
and lofing feed at the ends of the ridges.
—Fig. 7. is a Angle hoe-plough of a very fimple con-
ftrudtion, by which the earth, in the intervals, is ftir-
red and laid up, on both fides, to the roots*of the plants,
and, at the fame time, the weeds are deftroyed. A A
the mold-boards, which may be raifed or deprefled at
pleafure, according as the farmer \vants to throw the
earth higher or lower upon the roots.
Advantages of Horfe-hceing.
Th e advantages of tillage before fowing have already
been pointed out. In this place we muft confine our-
felves to the utility of tillage after fowing. This kind
of tillage is mod generally known by the name of horfe-
hoeing.
Land fowed with wheat, however well it may be culti¬
vated in autumn, (inks in the winter; the particles get
nearer together, and the weeds rife; fo that in fpring,
the land is nearly in the fame fituation as if it never had
been ploughed. This, however, is the feafon when it
(hould branch and grow with mod vigour; and confe-
quently (lands mod in need of ploughing or hoeing, to
deftroy the weeds, to fupply the roots with frefli earth,
and, by dividing anew the particles of the (oil, to allow
the roots to extend and colled! nourifhment.
It is well known, that, in gardens, plants grow with
double- vigour after being hoed or tranfplanted. If
plants growing in arable land could be managed with eafe
and fafety in this manner, it is natural to exped!, that
their growth would be promoted accordingly. Expe¬
rience (hows, that this is not only pradticable, but at¬
tended with many advantages.
In the operation of hoeing wheat, though fome of the
roots be moved or broke, the plants receive no injury;
for this very circumftance makes them fend forth a greater
number of roots than formerly, which enlarge their pa-
dure, and confequently augment their growth.
Sickly wheat has often recovered its vigour after a
good hoeing, efpecially when performed in weather not
very hot or dry.
Wheat, and fuch grain as is fown before winter, re¬
quires hoeing more than oats, barley, or other grain
fown in the fpring ; for, if the land has been well
ploughed before the fowing of fpring-corn, it neither has
time to harden nor to produce many weeds, not having
been expofed to the winter’s fnow and rain.
Of
Plate.IX.
A G
R I C
U
Of Sowing.
As, in the praflice of the new hufbandry, plants grow
with greater vigour than by the old method, the land
fhould be fowed thinner. It is this principle of the new
huibandry that has been chiefly objedted to ; for, upon
ohferving the land occupied by a fmall number of plants,
people are apt to look upon all the vacant fpace as loft.
But this prejudice will foon be removed, when it is con-
fidered, that, in the beft land cultivated in the common
method, and fown very thick, each feed produces but
one or two ears; that, in the fame land fown thinner,
every feed produces two or three ears; and that a fingle
feed fometimes produces eighteen or twenty ears.
In the common method, as there are many more
plants than can find fufficient nourifhment, and as it is
impoflible to affift them by hoeing, numbers die before
they attain maturity, the greateft part remain fickly and
drooping; and thus part of the feed is loft. On the con¬
trary, in the new method, all the plants have as much
food as they require; and as they are, from time to
time, affifted by hoeing, they become fo vigorous as to
equal in their produftion the numerous, but fickly plants
cultivated in the common method.
Of Hoeing.
The new huibandry is abfolutely impracticable in
lands that are not eafily ploughed. Attempting to cul¬
tivate land according to this huibandry, without attend¬
ing to this circumftance, that it is practicable in no land,
excepting fuch as have already been brought into good
tilth by the old method, has gone far to make it con¬
temptible in many places.
When a field is in good tilth, it Ihoukl be fown fo
thin as to leave fufficient room for the plants to extend
their roots. After being well ploughed and harrowed,
it mull be divided into rows, at the diftance of 30 inches
from one another. On the Tides of each of thefe rows,
two rows of wheat muft .be fowed.fix inches diftant from
each other. By this means there will be an interval of
two feet wide betwixt the rows, and every plant will
have room enough to extend its roots, and to fupply it
with food. The intervals will like wife be fufficient for
allowing the earth to be hoed or tilled without injuring
the plants in the rows.
The firft hoeing, which fhould be given before the
winter, is intended to drain away the wet, and to dif-
pofe the earth to be mellowed by the frofts. Thefe two
ends will be anfwered by drawing two fmall furrows at
a little diftance from the rows, and throwing the earth
taken from the furrows into the middle of the intervals.
This firft hoeing fhould be given when the wheat is in
kaf.
The fecond hoeing, which is intended to make the
plants branch, fhould be given after the hard frofts are
oyer. To do this with advantage, after ftirring the
earth a little, near the rows, the earth which was thrown
in the middle of the intervals fhould be turned back in¬
to the furrows. This earth, having been mellowed by the
Vol. I. No. 3. 3
L T U R E. 69-
winter, fupplies the plants with excellent food, and makes
the roots extend.
The third hoeing, which is intended to invigorate the,
flalk, fhould be given when tire’ears of the corn begin
to fhew themfelves. This hoeing may, however, be very,
flight.
But the laft hoeing is of the greateft importance, as
it enlarges the grain, and makes the ears fill at their ex¬
tremities. This hoeing fhould be given when the wheat
is in bloom ; a furrow muft be drawn in the middle of
the interval, and the earth thrown to the right and left;
on the foot of the plants. This fupports the plants,
prevents them from being laid, and prepares the ground
for the next fowing, as the feed is then to be put in the
middle of the ground that formed the intervals.
By this fuceeflive tillage, or hoeing, good crops will
be obtained, provided the weather is not very unfavour¬
able.
But as ftrong, vigorous plants are longer before they,
arrive at maturity, corn railed in the new way is later
in ripening than any other, and muft therefore be fown
earlier.
In order to prepare the intervals for fowing again,
fome well-rotted dung may be laid in the deep furrov/s
made in the middle of the intervals; and this dung muft
be covered with the earth that was before thrown to¬
wards the rows of wheat. But, if the land does not re- ,
quire mending, the deep furrow is filled without any
dung. This operation fhould be performed immediately
after harveft, that there may be time to give the land a
flight ftirring before the rows are fowed ; which fhould
occupy the middle of the fpace which formed the inter¬
vals during the laft crop. The intervals of tire fecond
year take up the fpace occupied by the ftubble of the,
fiift.
Suppofing dung to be necefiary, which is denied by
many, a very fmall quantity is fufficient; a fingle layer,
put in the bottom of each furrow, will be enough.
Summary of the Operations neceffary in execu-
tingthe New Husbandry with the Plough.
r. It is indifpenfibly neceflary that the farmer be
provided with a drill and hoe-plough.
2. The new bufbandry may be begun either with the -
winter or fpring corn.
3. The land muft be prepared by four good plough-
ings, given at different times, from the beginning of A-
pril to the middle of September.
4. Thefe ploughings muft be done in dry weather, to
prevent the earth from kneading.
5. The land muft be harrowed in the fame manner as
if it were fowed in the common way.
6. The rows of wheat fhould be fowed very ftraight.
7. When the field is not very large, a line muft be
ftrained acrofs it, by which a rill may be traced with a
hoe for the horfe that draws the drill to go in; and,
when the rows are fown, fifty inches muft be left betwixt
each rill. But, when the field is large, flakes at five
feet diftance from each other, muft be placed at the tw)
ends. The workman muft- then trace a fmall furrow,
f S with
7o A G R I C U
with a- plough that has no mold-board, for the horfe to
go in that draws the drill, directing himfelf with his eye
By the flakes.
8. The lowing fhould be finifhed about the end of
September, or beginning o£ Qdfober..
9. The furrows muft be traced the long way of the-
land, that as little ground as poflible may be loft in head¬
lands-.
10. The rows, if it can be done, fhould run down
the Hope of the land, that the. water may get the ea-
fier off.
11. The feed-wheat muft be plunged into a tub of
lime-water, and ftirred, that the light corn may come to
the furface and be fkimmed off.
12. The feed muft next be fpread on a floor, and fre¬
quently ftirred, till it is dry enough to run through the
valves of the happer of the drill,.
13. To prevent fmut, the feed may be put into a Lyfr
of allies and lime.
14. After the happers of the drill are filled, the
horfe muft go flowly along the: furrow that was traced*
That a proper quantity of feed may be fown, the a-
perture of the happer muff be fuited to: the fize of the
grain.
15. As the drill is feldom.well managed at firft,, the
field fliould be examined after the corn has come up, and
the deficiencies fuppHed.
16. Stiff lands that retain the wet, muft be ftirred or
hoed in Chftober. This fliould be done by opening a fur¬
row in the middle of the intervals, and afterwards filling
it up by a furrow drawn on each fide, which will raife
the earth in the middle of the intervals, and leave two
fmall furrows next the rows, for draining off the water,
which is very hurtful to wheat in winter,
17. The next ftirring muft be given about the end of
March, with a light plough. In this ftirring, the fur¬
rows made to drain the rows muft be filled up by earth
from the middle of the intervals.
A G R
AGRIFOLTUM, in botany. See Aqjjifolium.
AGRIMONIA, Agrimony, in botany, a genus of
the dodecandriadigynia clafs. There are three fpecies
of this genus, viz. the eupatoria, repens, and agri-
monoides; of which the eupatoria only is a native of
Britain. The calix of the eupatoria is quinqueden-
< xated; it has five petals, and two feeds in the bottom
of the calix. It is faid to be good in obftru&ions of
the liver, ebc.
AGRIMONOIDES, in botany, the trivial name of a
fpecies of the agrimonia.
AGRIMONY. See Agrimonja.
Hevip Agrimony. See Eitpatoritjm.
Water-hemp Agrimony. See Bidens.
AGRIOCINARA, in botany, See Cinara.
AGRIPPA, in midwifery, a term, applied to children
brought forth, with their feet.foremoft. See Mid¬
wifery.
L T U R E.
18. Some time in May, the rows muft be evened,
which, though troublefome at firft, foon becomes eafy,
as the weeds are foon kept under by tillage.
19. In June, juft before the wheat is in bloom, ano¬
ther ftirring muft be given with the plough. A deep,
furrow muft be made in the middle of the intervals, and
the earth thrown upon the Tides of the rows.
20. When the wheat is ripe, particular care moft be ta¬
ken in reaping it, to trample as little as poilible- on the
ploughed land.
21. Soon after the wheat is; carried off the field, the
intervals muft be turned up with the plough, to prepare,
them for the feed. The great furrow in the middle
muft not only be filled, but the earth raifed as much as
poflibie in the middle, of the intervals.
22- In September, the land muft be again fewed with
a drill, as above directed.
23. In' October, the ftubble muft be turned in for'
forming the new intervals;. and the fame management
muft be obferved as direfted in the firft year.
We pretend not to determine whether the old or new
hufbandry be preferable in every country.
With regard to this point, the climate, the fituation
of particular land, fkill and dexterity in managing the
machinery, the comparative expence in railing crops, and
many other circumftances, muft be accurately attended
to before a determination can be given. One obferva-
tion, however, may be made in favour of the new huf¬
bandry :—Though the particular modes of cultivating
land by it are perhaps too limited to be Univerfally ad¬
opted; yet it has been of great ufe in raifing fufpi cions
concerning the old method, and in turning the views 6p
philbfophers and farmers towards improving in general:
Many real improvements in agriculture have been the
confequences of theft fufpicions; and as1 this fpirit of
inquiry remains in full vigour, particularly in our Own
country, a folid foundation is laid for expecting ftill fur¬
ther improvements in this'ufeforart.
A G R
AGRIUM, in nat. hift. See Natrum,
AGROM, the name of ’ a difeafe incident to the inhabi¬
tants of the Eaft-Indies, by which their tongues chap'
and cleave in different places.
AGROPOLI, a fmall town in the kingdom of Naples,
and province of the Hither Principato.
AGROSTEMMA, or Cockle, in botany, a genus off
the decandria pentagynia clafs; The calix is mono-
phyllous ; the petals are fives atl<i ungulated; and
the capfule one-valved. There' are four fpecies of'
the agroftemma, viz. the githago, a' native of Bri¬
tain; the coelirofa, a native of Sicily; the coronaiia,
a native of Italy; and the flos Jovis, a native of Swit¬
zerland.
AGROSTIS, hent-grafs, in botany, a genus of the
triandria digynia clafs. The calix has two valves,
terminated by a beard or auti. There are fifteen fpecies
of theagroftis, eight of which are natives of Britain.
AGRGS-
A G Y ( 7f
AGROSTOGRAPHIA, fignifieS the liidory or defcrip-
tion of grafles.
AGRYPNIA, a term with phyficians for watching, or
an inaptitude to deep.
AGUALVA,. in geography, the name of a river of
Portugal, and of a town in the ifland of TeYcera.
AGUAPECACA, in ornithology, a barbarous name of
a fpecies-of the terra®. See TEraAO.
AGUARA-QUIYA, in botany, a barbarous name of
the folanum. See S o n a n u wf.
AGUARA-PONDA, in botany, a barbarous name of
a fpecies of the viola. See Viola.
AGUARIGO, a river of S. America, which, arifing in
the mountains of Cordeleras, falls into the river of
the Amazons.
AG USER, a river of Africa, in the kingdom of Fezr
which lofes itfelf in the Beber. See Beber.
AGUE, a general name for all kinds of periodical fe-
■ vers. See Medicine, title, Of agues or inte'rmit-
tents.
Aoxji'tree, in botany. See Sassafras.
AGUEPERSE, a town of France, fituated in the Ly-
■ onnois, about fifteen miles north of Clermont.
AGUER, the name of Santa-.croix, before it fell into
the hands of the Portuguefe.
AGUGLIA, a name ufed by fome travellers for the o-
: bcliiks of Egypt. See Obelisk.
AGUIGAN, one of the Marian iflands. See Marian
iflattds.
AGUILAR, a town of Spain, in the province of Na¬
varre, about twenty-four miles well of Eftella.
Aguilar Del Campo, af town of Old Caftile, with the
title of marquifate, about fifteen leagues north of the
city of Burgos.
AGUE, in botany, a fynonime of the hedyfarum. See
Hedysarum.
AG UR AH, in Jewifh antiquity the name of a filver
coin, otherwife called per ah, and kejhita.
AGURAlvDE, a fortified tov/n of France, in the
country of Berry, about four leagues^ fouth of Char¬
tres.
AGUSADURA, A-ous AgE, in our old cuftoms, a cer¬
tain fee paid by vaffals-to their lord, for the iharpen-
ing of their plough-tackle.
AGUTI, in zoology, the trivial name of a fpecies of
the moufe, belonging to the mammalia glires of Lin¬
naeus. See Mus.
AGUTI-GUEPA, in botany. See Sagittarium.
Aguti-yreva, in botany, a barbarous name of afpeeies
of the citrus. See Citrus.
AGUTIGVEPO-OBI, in botany, a fynonime of the
thalia. See Thalia.
AGUZ, a river of Africa, in the empire of Morocco,
and province of Duouela.
AxGWANA, a kingdom of Africa, upon the golden
- coaft, lying northwards of'Aquemboe.
agtei, in antiquity, a kind of obeliiks, facrCd to A-
' polio, erefted in the yertibles- of houfes, by way of
fecurity.
AGYNIANI, in church-hiftory, a feCt of heretics who
: condemned all carnal- commerce with women-.
) AID
AGYRTiE, in Grecian antiquity, a kind of ftrolling
vagabonds, not unlike our modern gypfies.
AHATULLA, the trivial name of a fpecies of the co¬
luber, belonging to the order of amphibia ferpentw.
See Coluber.
AHALOTH. SeeXYLo-ALOEs.
AHANIGER, in zoology. See Acus.
AHA.USEN, in geography, the fame with Ahuys. See
Ahuys.
AHICCYATLI, in zoology, the Indian name of a fer-
pent refembling the rattle-fnake, only it wants the
rattles. See Coluber.
AHMELLA, in botany, See Bidens.
AHOUAI, in botany, a fynonime, and alfo the trivial
name of a fpecies of the cerbera. See Cerbera.
AHRENSBOECK, a fortrefs of Holftein, on the road
from Lubec to Kiel.
AHUAS, a confiderable town and diftriCf of Perfia, in
the province of Kivu redan or Chufidan.
AHUN, a town of France, in the higher Marche, fi¬
tuated upon the river Creufe.
AHUS, a tov/n of Germany, in the biflioprick of Mun-
fter, capital of a confiderable diftriCt.
AHUYS, a fea-port town of Sweden, in the province
of Gothland, fituated in 32. 14. E. long, and 56. o.
N. lat.
AIA, the name of a fmall river of Italy, which falls in¬
to the Tiber, near the village Magliano.
AIAIA, in ornithology, a fpecies of the platalea, a
bird of the'order of grallae. See Platalea.
AJAJOUNI, the name given by the Turks to a town
of Lefier Alia’, otherwife called Hagia.
AJAN, or Ayan, the name of a large maritime coun¬
try of Africa, lying fouth wards of the mouth of the
Red-fea, the natives of which are white.
AJANT1A, in antiquity, an annual feftival celebrated
in the ifland of Salamis in honour of Ajax.
AJASALOUE, the modern name by which the Turks
call Ephefus. See Ephesus.
AJAX, in Grecian antiquity, a kind of dance reprefent-
ing the madnefs of Ajax after his defeat by Ulyfles.
AJAZZO, the name of two towns, the one in the ifland
of Corfica; and the other in Leffer Afia, about fifty
miles weft of Aleppo.
AICHMALOTARCHA. See the article ZEchmalo-
TARCHA.
AICHSTAT, a city of Germany in the circle of Fran-*
conia, about fourteen miles N. W. of Ingolftat.
AID, in a general' fenfe, denotes any kind of afliftance
given by one perfon- to another.
Aid, or Ayde, in law, denotes a petition made in court
to call in help from another perfon who has intereft in
land, or any other thing contefted.
Kixy-de-canipr, in military affairs, an officer employed to
receive and carry the- orders of a general.
Kw-major, the-French term for an adjutant. Seethe
article' Adjutant.
Aid, aurilium, in ancient cuftoms, a fubfidy paid by
vaffials to their lord-on certain occafions.
Such were the aid of relief, paid upon the death of
the Lord Mcfne to his heir; the aid cbeval, or ca¬
pital
AIN ( 72 ) AIR
pital aid, dae to the chief lord on feveral occafions,
as, to make his eldeft fon a knight, to make up a por¬
tion for marrying his daughter, (jc.
Royal Aid, an appellation ibmetimes given to the land-
tax.
AIDS, in the Frendrcufloms, certain duties paid on all
goods exported or imported into that kingdom.
Court of A.ids, in France, a fovereign court eftablifhed
in feveral cities, which has cognizance of all caufes
relating to the taxes, gabels, and .aids.
Aids, in the menage1, are the fame with what fome
writers call cherijhings, and ufed to avoid the necefli-
ty of corrections.
The inner heel, inner leg, inner rein, <foc. are call¬
ed inner aids ; as the outer heel, outer leg, outer
rein, <bc. ^re called outer aids.
Aids of affizers of wood. See Assizer.
AIDINELLI, or Aidin-ili, the modern or Turkilh
name of Natolia, or Lelfer Afia. See Natolia.
AIELO, or Aiello, a fmall town of the kingdom of
Naples, in the Farther Abruzzo, with the title of
Dutchy.
AIGHENDALE,, the name of a liquid meafure ufed
in Lancalhire, containing feven quarts.
A1GITHALUS, in ornithology, an obfolete name of
the parus or titmoufe. See Parus.
AIGLE, in geography, the name of a town of France,
in the Higher Normandy; alfo of a promontory in Pro¬
vence, lying fouthward.of the city of Ciotad; and of
a town and diftriCt of Switzerland, in the canton of
Bern.
AIGRE, a river of France, otherwife called Egre. See
the article Egre.
AIGLETTE, in heraldry. Eaglet.
AIGRETTA, in ornithology, an obfolete name of the
ardea alba. See Ardea.
AIGUE-?«iZr;»(?. See Aqua marina.
AIGUILLON, orEcuiLLON, a fmall town of France,
in the province of Guienne, fituated at the conflux of
- the rivers Garonne and Lot.
AIGUISCE, Aiguisse, orEcuiscE, in heraldry, de¬
notes a crofs with its four ends ftiarpened, but fo as
to terminate in obtufe angles.
It differs from the crofs fitchee, in as much as the
latter tapers by degrees to a point, and the former
only at the ends.
AILE, or Aiel, in law, a writ which lies where a
perfon’s grandfather, or great-grandfather, being
ieifed of lands, <&c. in fee Ample the day that he
died, and a ftranger abates or enters the fame day,
and difpofleffes the heir of his inheritance.
AILESBURY, the county town of Buckinghamfliire,
fituated near the Thames, about forty-four miles W.
of London. It fends two members to parliament,
and gives the title of earl to the noble family of
Bruce. W. long. 16. 55. N. lat. 51.40.,
AIMARGUES, a fmall town of France, in the pro¬
vince of Languedoc, and diocefe of Nifmes.
AIN, a river of France, which, after watering part of
Franche Comte and Breffe, falls into the Rhone, a-
bout four leagues above Lyons.
AIPIMIXIR A, in ichthyology, the American name of
a fiih called pudano.
AIR, a thin tranfparent fluid which encompafles the
globe of the earth to a confiderable height. For the
weight, preffure, elafticity, <bc. of air, fee Pneu¬
matics.
Air, in medicine, one of the fix non-naturals, and as
eflential to the life of animals as food, or any of the
ordinary .evacuations.
Air, in mythology, was adored by the heathens under
the names of Jupiter and Juno ; the former reprefent-
ing the fuperior and finer part of the atmofphere,
and the latter the inferior and grofler part. The au¬
gurs alfo drew prefages from the clouds, thunder,
lightning, fee.
Air, in painting, fee. denotes the manner and very
life of action; or it is that which exprefies the difpo-
fition of the agent.
It is fometimes alfo ufed in a fomewhat fynonymous
fenfe with geflure or attitude.
Air, in mufic, denotes the melody proper for fongs,
odes, and the like; being ufually quick and lively.
Sometimes it is ufed for the fongs themfelves, call¬
ed by the Romans aera, from which the modern term
air is derived.
AIRS, in the menage, are the artificial motions of taught
horfes, as the demivolt, curvet, capriole, fee. See
Demi volt, fee.
Ai ^.-bladder, a veficle in the bodies of moQ: fifties, by
which, being filled with air, they are enabled to fink
or raife themfelves in the water, by comprelling or ex¬
panding the air contained in this bag, and thereby
rendering dieir bodies at pleafure fpecifically heavier
or lighter than water.
A\K-gun, a machine for exploding balls by means of con-,
denfed air. See Pneumatics.
A\K-pump, a machine by which the air contained in a
proper veflel may be exhaufted, or drawn out. See
Pneumatics.
Ai K-fhafts, among miners, are holes made to meet
the adits, and fupply them with frefti air. Thefe,
when the adits are long, or exceeding thirty or
forty fathom, become highly neceflary, as well to
give vent to the damps and noxious vapours, as to let
in frefti air.
AiK-threads. See Gossamer.
Ai^-vejfels, are fpiral duds in the leaves, fee. of plants,
fuppofed to be analogous to the lungs of animals, in
fupplying the different parts of a plant with air.
AIRA, in botany, a genus of the triandria digynia
clafs. There are 14 fpecies of the aira, nine of which
are natives of Britain. The Englifti name is hair-
grafs.
AIREBA, in ichthyology, a fynonime of the raja pafti-
naca. See Pastinaca,
AIRANI, in church-hillory, a branch of Arians, who,
befide the common dogma of that fed, denied the
confubftantiality of the Holy Ghoft with the Father
and Son.
AIRE, in geography, a fea-port town in Scotland, fi- .
tuated jn 4. 40. W. long, and 55. 30. N. lat. at
the
A I Z ( 73 ) ALA
the mouth of a river of the fame name, which dif-
charges itfelf into the frith of Clyde. Aire is the
chief town of the county, and very ancient. About
a mile north from the town, there is a lazar-houfe,
commonly called ths King's chapel, which King Ro-.
bert de Bruce fet apart for the maintenance of lepers.
Aire, is alfo the name of two towns of France, the
one fituated in the province of Gafcony, about fixty-
five miles S. of Bourdeaux; and the other in Artois,
about thirty-five miles S. E. of Calais.
AIRESHIRE, a county of Scotland, the capital of
which is the town of Aire. It lies ealhvard of the
frith of Clyde.
AIRING, a term peculiarly ufed for the exercifing hor-
fes in the open air.
AIRON, a river of France in the Nivernois.
AIRONO, a town of Italy, in the dutchy of Milan.
AIROU, a river of France in the province of Normandy.
AIRY, or Aery, among fportfmen, a term exprefling
the nefl: of a hawk or eagle.
Airy triplicity, among aftrologers, denotes the three
figns, gemini, libra, and aquarius.
AISE, in geography. SeeAiswE.
AISIAMENTA, in law, the fame with eafement. See
Easemeut.
AISNE, or Ai se, a river of France which rifes on the
frontiers of Lorrain, near Clermont, and falls into
the Oyfe, a little below Soifons.
AITOCZU, a confiderable river of Leffer Afia, which,
arifing in the mountain Taurus, falls into the fouth
part of the Euxine fea.
AJUGA, in botany, a genus of the didynamia gymno-
fpermia clafs. There are four fpecies of the ajuga,
of which the reptans or bugle, and the pyramidalis
or mountain bugle, are natives of Britain.
KyjKU-catinga, in ornithology, the Indian name of a
fpecies of the pfittacus or parrot. See Psittacus.
Kiv^xs-curau, in ornithology, the Indian name of two
fpecies of Brafilian parrots, beautifully variegated with
blue, green, red, yellow, and black.
AjURU-/>tf/v7, another parrot refembling the ajuru-catin-
ga, but fmaller.
AJUTAGE, or Adjutage, a kind of tube fitted to
the mouth of the veflel through which the water of a
fountain is to be played. To the different form and
ftrufture of ajutages, is owing the great variety of
fountains. See Fountain.
AIX, in geography, the name of feveral places, viz. of
a large city of France, the capital of Provence; of a
fmall town of Savoy, about eight miles N. of Cham-
berry; of an ifiand on the coal! of Gafcony, between
that of Oleron and the main-land; and of a village of
Champagne, fituated in the generality of Chalons.
AIX-LA-CHAPELLE, otherwife called jiach, Ach,
and Aken, an imperial city of Germany, in the dutchy
of Juliers. It is large and populous; being much re-
forted to by foreigners, as well as by the Germans,
on account of its hot baths.
AIZOON, in botany, a genus of the icofandria pentan-
dria clafs. The cup is divided into five parts ; the
flowers confifts of one leaf ; the capfule or feed-vefiel
Vol. I. No. 4. 3
has five cells; and the flower-cup refis on the top of
the fruit. There are three fpecies of the aizoon, viz.
the canarienfe, the hifpanicum, and the paniculatum,
which lafl: is a native of Africa. This plant refembles
the fedum or houfe-leek.
AKISSAR, orAx-HissAR, a town of Leffer Afia,
fituated upon the river Hermus.
AKOND, in the Perfian affairs, the chief judge in all
cafes of contra&s and other civil affairs. He is at the
head of the lawyers, and has his deputies in all courts
of the kingdom.
AKROCZIM, a town of Poland, with a caftle of con¬
fiderable ftrength, fituated in the Palatinate of Maf-
fovia.
AKSTADT, in geograghy. See the article Aich-
s'tat.
AL, an Arabic particle prefixed to words, and fignify-
ing much the fame with the Englilh particle the:
Thus they fay, alkermes, alkoran, <bc. i. e. the ker-
mes, the koran, &c.
Al, or Ald, a Saxon term frequently prefixed to the
names of places, denoting their antiquity, as Aid-
borough, Aldgate, <&c.
ALA, a Latin term properly fignifying a wing; from a
refemblance to which feveral other things are called by
the fame name : Thus,
Ala, in botany, is ufed in different fenfes; fometimes it
denotes the hollow between the ftalk of a plant and
the leaves ; fometimes it is applied to the two fide-
petals of the papilionaceous flowers ; others ufe it for
the flender membranaceous expanfions found in the
flems of plants, thence denominated alatedJlalks.
Ala, in botany, an obfolete name of the helenium. See
Helenium.
ALZE, in anatomy, a term applied to the lobes of the
liver, the cartilages of the noftril,
Ala:, in the Roman art of war, were the two wings
or extreme parts of the army drawn up in order of
battle.
ALABA, in geography, the name of a kingdom of Afri-
. ca, dependent on the empire of Abyflinia, or Ethi¬
opia, the capital of which is called by the fame name.
ALABASTER, in natural hiftory, a genus of follils re¬
fembling marble, which are bright, brittle, and do
not give fire with Reel; they ferment with acids, and
readily calcine with heat. There are three fpecies of
alabafter; 1. The fnow-white fhining alabafter, or
lygdinum of the ancients, is found in Taurus in pieces
large enough to make difhes, or the like. It cuts
very freely, and is capable of a fine polifti. 2. The
yelldwifti alabafter, or phengitcs of Fliny, is found in
Greece, and is of a foft loofe operr texture, pretty
heavy, and nearly of the colour of honey. This fpecies
has likewife been found in Germany, France, and in
Derbylhire in England. 3. Variegated, yellow, and
reddiih .'abafter. This fpecies is the common ala*,
barter of the ancients, and is fo foft that it may be
cut with a knife : It is remarkably bright, and almoft
tranfparent; admits of a fine polilh, and confifts of
large angular fparry concretions. It is not proof a-
gainft water; it ferments violently with aqua-fortis, and
f T burns
ALA (7
burns to a pale yellow. The colour of this fpecies is
a clear pale yellow refembling amber, and variegated
with undulated veins; fome of which are pale red,
others whitilh, and others of a pale brown. It was
formerly brought from Egypt, but is now to be met
with in feveral parts of England. The alabafters are
frequently ufed by ftatuaries for fmall flatues, vafes,
and columns. After being calcined and mixed with
water, they may be call in any mould like plafter of
Paris,
Alabaster, in antiquity, a term not only ufed fora
box of precious ointment; but alfo for a liquid mea-
fure, containing ten ounces of wine, or nine of oil.
ALABASTRA, in botany, a name ufed by the ancients
for the calix or cup of flowers.
ALABASTRUM dendroide, a kind of laminated ala-
bafter, beautifully variegated with the figures of flirubs,
trees, fac.
ALADINISTS, a fed among the Mahometans, an-
fwering to free-thinkers among us.
ALADULIA, in geography, the mofl: eafterly divifion
of Lefler Afia, comprehending the ancient Cappado¬
cia, and Armenia Minor.
ALAGON, a fmall town of Spain, in the kingdom of
Arragon, fituated near the conflux of the river Xalon
with the Ebro.
ALAIS, a-confiderable town of France, in the province
of'Languedoc, fituated on the river Garden, at the
foot of the Cevennes.
ALAISEE, in heraldry, the fame with humetty. See
Humett v.
ALALCOMENIUS, in Grecian antiquity, the Boeo¬
tian name of the month called, by the Athenians, Mce-
mafierion. See Maemacterion.
ALAMIRE, or A-la-mi-re, among muficians, a note
of the modern fcale of mafic. See Scale.
ALAMODALITY, in a general fenfe, is the accom¬
modating a perfon’s behaviour, drefs, and adtions to
the prevailing tafle of the country or times in which
he lives.
ALAMODE, in commerce, a thin glofly black filk,
chiefly ufed for womens hoods, and mens mourning
fcarfs.
ALAN, a fmall river of England in the county of Corn¬
wall, which falls into the Briflol channel,
Alan, is alfo a fmall town of France, with a very fine
caflle, fituated in the eaftern divifion of Gafcony.
ALANA gelba, a name by which fome writers call the
yellowiih tripoli. See Tripoli.
ALAND, cr Alandt, an ifland of the Baltic fea,
. fituated between 18. and 20. degrees of long, and be¬
tween 59. and 61. degrees of lat.
ALANGUER, or Alenguer, a town of Portugal,
in the province of Efiremadura, and about feven leagues
from Lilbon.
ALANORARIUS, in our oldcufloms, was a keeper of
fpaniels, fetting-dogs, <bc. for the ufe of fportfmen.
The word is derived from a I a a, a gothic term for a
grey-h'tur.d.
ALANTEJO, in geography. See the article Alen-
tejo.
4 ) ALA
ALAPOULI, in botany, an obfolete name of a fpecies
of the averrhoa. See Averrhoa.
ALAQUECA, a ftone brought from the E. Indies in
fmall glofly fragments, faid to flop haemorrhages by
external application.
ALARAF, among Mahometans, denotes tire partition-
wall which feparates heaven from hell.
ALARBES, or Alarabes, a name given to thofe A-
rabians who live in tents, and diftinguilh themfelves
by their drefs from the others Who live in towns.
ALxARES, in Roman antiquity, an epithet given to the
cavalry, on account of their being placed in the two
wings of the army.
ALARES mufculi. See Pterygoideus.
ALARM, in the military art, denotes either the appre-
henfion of being fuddenly attacked, or the notice there¬
of, fignified by firing a cannon, firelock, or the like.
Falfe alarms are frequently made ufe of to harrafs
the enemy, by keeping them conftantly under arms.
Sometimes alfo this method is taken to try the vigi¬
lance of the piquet-guard, and what might be expect¬
ed from them in cafe of real danger.
Alarm-£it//, that rung upon any fudden emergency, as
a fire, mutiny, or the like.
Alarm-/i^?, or A’LAKU-place, the ground for drawing
up each regiment in cafe of an alarm. This is other-
wife called the rendezvous.
Alarm, in fencing, is the fame with what is otherwife
called an appel, orchallenge. See Challenge.
ALATAMAHA, a large river of N. America, which,
rifing in the Apalachian mountains, runs fouth-eaft
through the province of Georgia, and falls into the
Atlantic ocean, below the town of Frederica.
ALATED animals, fuch as are furnilhed with wings.
Alated leaves, in botany, fuch as are compofedof fe¬
veral pinnated ones. See Pinnated.
ALATERNOIDES, in botany, a fynonime of a fpecies
of the myrica. See Myrica.
ALATERNUS, in botany, the trivial name of a fpecies
of the rhamnus. See Rhamnus.
ALATRI, or Alatro, a town of Italy in theCampagna
di Roma, fituated near the frontiers of Naples.
ALAVA, or Alabro, in geography, a territory of
Spain, being the fouth-eafl divifion of the province of
Bifcay.
ALAUDA, or Lark, in ornithology, a genus of birds
of the order of pafleres; the characters of which are
thefe : The beak is cylindrical, fubulated, ftrait; and
the two mandibles or chaps are of equal fize. The
tongue is bifid, and the hinder claw is flraight, and
longer than the toe. There are nine fpecies of the a-
lauda. 1. Alauda-arvenfis, or common Iky-lark,
which rifes in the air almofl: perpendicularly, and be¬
gins to fing early in the fpring, and generally leaves
off about midfummer. See Plate III. fig. 2. 2. A-
lauda-pratenfis, or tit lark, has the two outward fea¬
thers of the wing edged with white, and frequents
the meadows. 3. The arborea, or wood-lark, is a
native of Europe, and is diftinguiflied by an annular
white fillet about the head. 4. The campeflris, has
one half of its chief feathers of the wings brown,
except
ALB ( 75 ) ALB
except two in the middle which are white, and the ALBANUM, a term ufed by fome chemifts for fait of
throat and breaft are yellowifh. 5. The trivialis, urine.
whofe chief feathers on the tail are brown, only half ALBANY, a town of N. America, in the province of
of the outermofl: is white, and the fecond is white at New-York, fituated on Hudfon’s river, in
the end, in the fhape of a wedge ; there is likewife a
double whitifh line on the wings. It is a native of
Sweden, and perches on the tops of trees. 6. The
criftata; the chief tail-feathers are black, but the
two outermoft are edged with white, and the head
is crefted. It is a native of Europe. 7. The fpino-
letta, the chief tail-feathers are black, only the out-
moft two are obliquely half white. It is a native of
Italy. 8- The alpeftris ; the chief wing-feathers are'
half white, the throat yellow, and it has a black ftreak
under the eyes and on the breaft. It is a native of
N. America. 9. The magna, is yellow on the belly,
with a crooked black ftreak on the breaft, and the
"three (ide-feathers of the tail white. It is a native of
Africa and America.
Alauda marina, ftint, or water-ouzel, in ornithology,
an obfolete name of a fpecies of the fturnus. See
Sturnus.
Alauda, in ichthyology, an obfolete name of a fpecies
of the blennius. See Blennius.
ALAUSA, in ichthyology. See Alosa.
ALAUTA, a confiderable .river of Turky in Europe,
which, after watering the north-eaft part of Tranfyl-
vania, and part of Wallachia, falls into the Danube al-
moft oppofite to Nicopolis.
ALB, or Albe, in the Romilh church, a veftment of
white linen hanging down to their feet, and anfwering
to the furplice of our clergy. In the ancient church,
it was ufuaJ, with thofe newly baptized, to wear an
alb, or white veftment; and hence the Sunday after
eafter v/as called dominica in a Ibis, on account of the
albs worn by thofe baptifed on eafter-day.
Alb is alfo the name of a Turkifh coin, otherwife called
afper. See Asper.
ALBA firma, or Album, in our old cuftoms, denoted
rent paid in filver, and not in corn, which w'as called
black-mail.
Alba terra, one of the numerous names for the philo-
fopher’s ftone.
ALBAHURIM, figura fexdicim laterum, a figure of
great importance according to aftrological phyficians,
who built their prognoftics on it.
ALBANENSES, in church-hiftory, the fame with Al-
bigenfes. See Albigenses.
ALBANI, in Roman antiquity, a college of the falii,
or priefts of Mars, fo called from mount Aibanus the
place of their refidence. See Sal 11.
ALBANIA, a province of Turky in Europe, fituated
on the eaft-fide of the gulph of Venice.
ALBANO, a town of Italy, in the Campagna di Roma,
about twelve miles fouth-eaft of Rome, 13.0. E.long.
41. 3$. N. lat.
ALBANS, or St Albans, a town of Hertfordlhire,
fituated about 20 miles north-weft of London. It re¬
turns two members to parliament, and gives the title
of duke to the noble family of Beauclerc, 5:1. 40.
N. lat.
long, and 43. o. N. lat.
ALBARA, among phyficians, a malignant itch, nearly
allied to the leprofy.
ALBAR AZIN, a town of Spain, in the kingdom of Ar-
ragon, fituated upon the river Guadalavir, about one
hundred and ten miles eaft of Madrid.
ALBARDEOLA, in ornithology. See Platalea.
ALBARIUM opus, in Roman antiquity, a kind of pla-
fter made of mere lime, ufed for covering the ceilings
of houfes.
ALB ATI equi, an appellation given to fuch horfes, in
the games of the ancient circus, as wore white furni¬
ture, in conftradiftin&ion from the vencti, prafini,
%n&. rufeti. See Veneti, Prasini, (be.
ALBAZIN, a town of Greater Tartary, with a ftrong
caftle : It is fituated upon the river Amur, or Yamour,
in 34. o. of N. lat. and belongs to theMufcovites.
ALBE, a fmall piece of money, current in Germany,
worth only a French fol and feven deniers.
ALBELLUS, in ornithology, the trivial name of a
fpecies of the mergus. See Mergus.
ALBEMARLE, a town of France, in the province of
Normandy, from whence the noble family of Keppel
takes the title of earl, in 2. o. E. long. 49. 45. N.lat.
Albemarle is alfo the name of the moft northerly di-
ftridt of N. Carolina. See Carolina.
ALBENGA, a fea-port town of Italy fituated on the
Mediterranean, about fifteen miles- north-eaft of One-
glia.
ALBERTUS, a gold coin, worth about fourteen French
livres : it was coined during the adminiftration of Al-
bertus archduke of Auftria.
ALBESIA, in antiquity, a kind of fliields otherwife
called dscumana. See Decumana.
ALBICILLA, in ornithology, the trivial name of a
fpecies of the falco. See Falco.
ALBIGENSES, in church-hiftory, a fe<ft of Chriftians
which appeared in the 12th and 13th centuries. They
are ranked among the grofleft heretics, the Maniche-
ans, by Roman Catholics; from which charge Proteft-
ants generally acquit them, though with fome limita¬
tion. See Manicheans.
At the time of the Reformation, thofe of the Albi-
genfes who remained embraced Calvinifm.
Albige-nses is alfo a name Ibmetimes, though impro¬
perly, ufed for a fed! more ufually known by that of
Waldenfes. See Walden ses.
ALBIGEOIS, a fmall diftridl of France in the higher
Languedoc, containing the dioesfes of Albi and Ca¬
dres.
ALBII, in church-hiftory, the fame with Albigenfes.
See ALBrcENSEs.
ALBINOS, the name by which the Portuguefe call the
white Moors, who are looked upon by the negroes as
monfters. They are the iflue of a white man and
black woman, and at a diftance might be taken for
Europeans; but, when you come near them, their
white
ALB (7
white colour appears like that of perfons affe&ed with
with a leprofy.
ALBION, the ancient name of Britain. See Britain.
Albion, a name given by Sir Francis Drake to
California. See California.
ALBLASSERWAERT, a diftrift of South Holland,
lying eaftward of Dcrt, between the rivers Meufe and
Leek.
ALBOGALERUS, in Roman antiquity, a white cap
worn by the fiamsn dlalis, on the top of which was an
ornament of olive branches.
ALBONA, Albono, or Albogna, a river of Italy
in the dutchy of Milan, which waters the Novarefe
and diltrift of Laumello.
ALBORAK, amongft the Mahometan writers, the beaft
on which Mahomet rode, in his journeys to heaven.
ALBORAN, a fmall ifland of Africa, lying on the
coafi: of the kingdom of Fez.
ALBOURG, or Alburg, a fea-port town of N. Jut¬
land, in the kingdom of Denmark.
ALBRET, or Albrit, a fmall town of France, in
the province of Gafcony, about thirty-five miles S. of
Bourdeaux.
ALBUCA, in botany, a genus of the hexandria mono-
gynia clafs. There are only two fpecies of this plant,
viz. the major, with lanceolated leaves; and minor,
with Tubulated leaves; both natives of the Cape of
Good Hope.
ALBUCUS, in botany, an obfolete name of a fpecies
of afphodelus.
ALBUGINEA tunica, in anatomy, the third or inner-
moft coat or covering of the teftes; it is likewife the
name given to one of the coats of the eye. See Ana¬
tomy, Part VI.
ALBUGINEUS, in anatomy, a term fometimes applied
to the aqueous humour of the eye.
ALBUGO, in medicine, a diftemper occafioned by a
white opaque fpot growing on the cornea of the eye,
and obftrudting vifion.
ALBULA, in ichthyology, the trivial name of a fpecies
of the falmo. See Sal mo.
Albula indica, in ichthyology, an obfolete name of
the falmo bimaculatus. See Salmo.
ALBUM, in antiquity, a kind of table, or regifter,
wherein the names of certain magiftrates, public tranf-
aftions, were entered. Of thefe there were va¬
rious forts; as the album fenatorum, album judicum,
album preetoris. See.
Album. See Albumen, Ceruss.
Album grxeum, among phyficians, the white dung of
dogs, formerly preferibed for inflammations of the
throat, foe. but now jullly defpifed.
Album nigrum, a term for mice-dung.
Album oculi, the white of the eye. See Albuginea,
Adnata.
ALBUMEN, among phyficians, the white of an egg.
Sec Egg.
ALBUQUERQUE, a city of Spain, in the kingdom
of Leon and province of Eftremadura, fituated on
the frontiers of Portugal, 7. o. W. long. 30. o.
N. lat.
) ) A L C
ALBURN, the Englifli name of a compound colour,
being a mixture of white and red, or reddifli brown.
ALBURNUM, that part of the wood which is next the
bark of trees.
ALBURNUS, in ichthyology, the trivial name of a
fpecies of the Cyprinus. See Cyprinus.
Alburnus lacujlris, an obfolete name of the cyprinus
ballerus. See Cyprinus.
ALBUS pifeis, an obfolete name of the cyprinus grifla-
gine. See Cyprinus,
ALBY, or Alb 1, a city of France in the province of
Languedoc, fituated in o. 40. E. long, and 43. 50.
N. lat.
ALCA, in ornithology, a genus of the order of an-
feres. The beak of this genus is without teeth,
Ihort, convex, comprelfed, and frequently furrowed
tranfverfely ; the inferior mandible is gibbous near
the bafe ; the feet have generally three toes. The
fpecies of the alca are fix. r. The tordo, or ra¬
zor-bill, with four furrows on the bill, and a white
line on each fide running from the bill to the eyes.
Great numbers of them hatch together in the caverns
of rocks, and lay but one egg at a time. 2. The
impennis, or northern penguin, with a comprefied
bill furrowed on each fide, and an oval fpot on each
fide of the eyes. 3. The ardtica, or puffin, with a
comprefled bill and four furrows; the orbit of the
eyes and temples are white. 4. The lomvia, or fea-
hen, with a fmooth oblong bill, and the upper mandi¬
ble yellow on the edges. 5. The grylle, or Green¬
land dove, with a fmooth fubulated bill, and a large
white fpot on the belly and wings; the feet are red.
6. The alle, or black and white diver, with afinooth
conical bill, a white ftreak on the belly and wings,
and black feet. All the fpecies of this genus frequent
the northern ftiores of Europe.
ALCACER de Sal, or Alcarez, a town of Portugal
in the province of Eftremaduia, about forty-five miles
fouth-eaft of Lilbon ; 9. o. W. long. 38. 30. N. lat.
ALCAICS, in ancient poetry, a denomination given to
feveral kinds of verfe, from the inventor Alcasus.
ALCAID, Alcayde, or Alcalde, in the polity of the
Moors, Spaniards, and Portuguefe, a magiftrate, or of¬
ficer of juftice, anfwering nearly to the French provoft,
and the Britifh juftice of peace.—The alcaid among
the Moors is veiled with fupreme jurifdiftion, both
in civil and criminal cafes.
ALCALA de Guadiara, a town of Spain in the pro¬
vince of Andalufia, about fix miles S. of Seville.
Alcala de Henares, a town of Spain, in the province
of New Caftile, about fixteen miles E. of Madrid.
Alcala de Real, a city of Spain, in the province of
Andalufia, about fifteen miles north-weft of the city of
Granada.
ALCALY. See Alkali.
ALCANITZ, a fmall town of Spain, in the kingdom
of Arragon, fituated on the river Guadaloupe.
ALCANNA, in commerce, a powder prepared from
the leaves of the Egyptian privet, in which the peo¬
ple of Cairo drive a confiderable trade. It is much ufed
by the Turkilh women, to give a golden colour to
their
Plate.X.
A L C (
their nails and hair. In dying, it gives a yellow co¬
lour, when fteeped with common waterand a red
one, when infufed in vinegar. There is alfo an oil ex-
traded from the berries of alcanna, and ufed in me¬
dicine as a calmer.
Alcanna. See Ichthyocolla.
ALCANTARA, a city of Spain, in the province of
Eltremadura, on the frontiers of Portugal; 7. o.
W. long. 39. 10. N. lat.
Knights of Alcantara, a military order of Spain,
which took its name from the above-mentioned city.
The knights of Alcantara make a very confiderable
figure in the hillory of the expeditions againfl: the
Moors.
ALCARAZ, a town of Spain, in the province of New-
Caftile, fituated on the river Guadarema; 3. o. W.
long. 38. 3. N. lat.
ALCAZAR de Sal, a fmall town of Portugal, in the
province of Eftremadura, near the confines of that of
Alantejo.
ALCE, orALCES, in zoology, the trivial name of a
fpecies of the cervus, belonging to the order of mam¬
malia pecora. SccCervus.
ALCEA, or Vervain-mallow, in botany, a genus
of the monodelphia polyandria clafs. There are only
two fpecies of this genus, viz. the rofea and ficifolia.
This genus differs little from the common mallow,
either in figure or medical virtues, excepting that
the leaves of the alcea are more deeply divided.
Alcea veficaria, in botany, an obfolete name of a fpe¬
cies of the ketmia. See Ketmia.
ALCEDO, or the Kings-fisher, in ornithology, a
genus of the order of picae. The alcedo has a long,
Itrait, thick, triangular bill; with a flelhy, plain, fhort,
flat tongue. There are feven fpecies of the alcedo,
viz. 1. The ifpida, or common kings-fifher, with a
fhort tail, blue above, and yellowifh below. It haunts
the fhores of Europe and Afia. 2. The erithaca,
with a fhort tail, a blue back, a yellow bill, a purple
head and rump, and the throat and oppofite part of
the neck white. It is a native of Bengal. 3. The
alcyon, with a fliort black tail, white belly, and fer¬
ruginous breaft. It is a native of America. 4. The
todus, with a fhort green tail, a blood-coloured throat,
and a white belly. It is a native of America; and is
the green fpatrow, or green humming-bird of Edwards.
5. The fmyrnenfis, with a fhort green tail, ferrugi¬
nous wings, and green back. It is a native of A-
frica and Afia. 6. The rudis, with a brown (hort
tail variegated with white. It is a native of Perfia
and Egypt. 7. The dea, with two very long fea-
tliers in the tail, a blackifh blue body, and greenifh
wings. It is a native of Surinam. All the fpecies
of this genus dive in the water, and catch fifh with
their long beaks.
ALCHEMILLA, or Ladies-mantle, a genus of the
tetrandria monogynia clafs. The leaves of this genus
are ferrated. The cup is divided into eight fegments ;
the flowers are apetaious, and colle&ed in bunches
upon the tops of the ftalk ; the feed-capfules general-
Vol. I. No. 4. 3
77 ) A L C
ly contain two conic feeds in each. There are only
three fpecies of the alchemilla, viz. the vulgaris of
the fhops, which is efteemed a powerful vulnerary; the
minor, or lead ladies-mantle; and the alpina, or
cinque-foil ladies-mantle; all of which are natives of
Britain.
ALCHEMIST, a prattitioner in alchemy. See Al¬
chemy.
ALCHEMY, that branch of chemifiry which had for
its principal objedts the tranfmutation of metals into
gold; the panacea, or univerfal remedy; an alkahed,
or univerfal menftruum; an univerfal ferment; and
many other things equally ridiculous. See Chemi¬
stry, Introduflion.
Al c h e m y is alfo fometimes ufed as a fynonymous term
for chemiftry in general.
ALCHIMILLA. See Alchemilla.
ALCHIMY, Alchymy, and Alchymist. See Al¬
chemy, and Alchemist.
ALCHITRAM, or Alchitran, a term among alche-
mifts for the oil of juniper, <bc.
ALCIBIUM, or Alcibiadum, in botany, an obfolete
term of a fpecies of echium. See Echium.
ALCMAER, a town of N. Holland, remarkable for the
fine paftures in its neighbourhood, and the great quan¬
tities of butter and cheefe made there.
ALCMxlNIAN, in ancient lyric poetry, a kind of verfe
confiding of two dadtyies and two trochees; as,
Virgini\bus pue\rifque | canto.
ALCOA arbor, the name of a tree in St Helena, faid
to emulate ebony.
ALCOBACO, a fmall town of Portugal, in the pro¬
vince of Edremadura : It is defended by a pretty
drong cadle ; but what makes it mod remarkable, is
the abbey of St Bennet, which is the burying-place of
mod of the kings of Portugal.
ALCOHOL, or Alkool, in chemidry, fpirit of wine
highly redtified. It is alfo ufed for any highly redli-
fied fpirit.—Alcohol is extremely light and inflamma¬
ble : It is a drong antifeptic, and therefore employed
to preferve animal fubdances. For the other qualities
of alcohol, fee Chemistry.
Alcohol is alfo ufed for any fine impalpable powder.
ALCOHOLIZATION, among chemids, the procefs
of redtifying any fpirit. It is alfo ufed for pulveriza¬
tion.
ALCOLA, a term among chemids for the tartar of u-
rine.
ALCORAN, or Alkoran, the name of a book held
equally facred among the Mahometans, as the Bible is
among Chridians.
The word alkoran properly fignifies reading; a ti¬
tle given it by way of eminence, jud as we call the
Old and New Tedaments Scriptures. See Mahome¬
tanism.
Alcoran, in a figurative fenfe, is an appellation given
to any books full of impodures or impiety.
Alcoran, among the Perfians, is alfo ufed for a nar¬
row kind of deeple, with two or three galleries, where
t U the
A L D (7!
the priefts, called Moravites, fay prayers with a loud
voice.
ALCORANISTS, among the Mahometans, an appel¬
lation given to thofe who adhere clofely to the alco-
ran as the ultimate rule of faith: Such are the Per-
fians, in contradiflindlion from the Turks, Arabs, 6r.
who admit a multitude of traditions befides the alcoran.
ALCOST, an obfolete name of a fpecies of tanfey.
ALCOVE, among builders, a recefs, or part of a cham¬
ber feparated by an eltrade, or partition of columns,
and other correfponding ornaments, in which is placed
a bed of ftate, and fometimes feats to entertain com¬
pany.
Thefe alcoves are frequent in Spain, and the bed
raifed two or three afcents, with a rail at the foot.
ALCOYTIN, a fmall town of Portugal, in the province
of Algarva, defended by one of the ftrongeft caftles
in that kingdom.
ALCYON, the trivial name of a fpecies of alcedo. See
Alcedo.
ALCYONIUM, in obfolete name of a fubmarine plant.
It is alfo ufed for a kind of coral, Or aftroites, fre¬
quently found foffile in England.
ALDABARAM, in anatomy. See Sesamoidea.
ALDARUi in botany, an obfolete name of a fpecies of
piftachia. See Pi stach ia.
ALDBOROUGH, a fea-port town of Suffolk, which
fends two members to parliament; 1. 40. E. long.
52. 20. N. lat.
Aldbo rough, is alfo a market-town of Yorklhire, a-
bout fifteen miles north-weft of the city of York.
ALDEA, a town of Portugal, in the province of Eftre-
madura, about ten miles S.of Lifbon.
ALDEBAC, the Arabian term for bird-lime.
ALDEBARAN, in aftronomy, a ftar of the firft mag¬
nitude, called, in Englilh, the bull’s eye, as making
the eye of the conftellation Taurus.
ALDEGO, a river of Italy, in the territories of Venice,
which lofes itfelf in the Adige.
ALDENAER, a fmall town of Germany in the ele&o-
rate of Cologn, fituated on the river Aar.
ALDENBURG. See Altenburg.
ALDER-/m’, in botany. See Be tula.
ALDERMAN, in tlie Britifh policy, a magiftrate fub-
ordinate to the lord-mayor of a city or town-corporate*
The number of thefe magiftrates is not limited, but
is more or lefs according to the magnitude of the place.
In London they are twenty-fix; each having one of
the wards of the city committed to his care. This
office is for life ; fo that when one of them dies, or
refigns, a ward-mote is called, who return two per-
fons, one of whom the lord-mayor and aldermen chufe
to fupply the vacancy. By the charter of the city of
London, aH the aldermen who have been lord-mayors,
together with the three eldeft ones not arrived at that
dignity, are juftices of the peace.
Alderman, among our Saxon anceftors, was a degree
of nobility anfwering to earl or count at prefent.
Alderman was alfo ufed, in the time of king Edgar,
for a judge or juffice; in which fenfe Ahvin is called
aldermannus totius Anglix.
) ) ALE
ALDERNEY, or Aurigni, an ifland on the coaft of
Normandy, fubject to the crown of Great Britain.
ALDII, an appellation given to thofe fervants who at¬
tended their mafters to the wars.
ALDROVANDA, in botany, a genus of the pentan-
dria pentagynia clafs; of which there is but one fpecies.
The calix is divided into five parts; the petals are
five ; and the capfule has five valves, with ten feeds.
It is a native of Italy and the Indies.
ALE, a fermented liquor, obtained from an infufion of
malt; and differing only from beer in having a lefs
proportion of hops. See Brewing.
Ale is thought to be the fame kind of liquor with
the cerevifia, zythum, and curmi of the ancients.
Medicated thofe wherein medicinal herbs nave
been infufed, or put to ferment: Such are the cere¬
vifia cephalica, cerevifia epileptica, &c.
Ai.'e.-berry, the popular name for ale that is'boiled with
bread and mace, fweetened, ftrained, and drank hot.
Ai.'E.-connor, an officer in London whoinfpefts the mea-
fures of public houfes. They are four in number,
and chofen by the common-hail of the city.
Ale-Jilver, a tax paid yearly to the lord-mayor, by all
who fell ale within the city.
Ai.%-meafure. See Measure.
ALEA, in Roman antiquity, denotes in general all man¬
ner of games of chance; but, in a more refttifled
fenfe, was ufed fot a particular game played with dice
and tables, not unlike our backgammon. See Back¬
gammon.
ALEATORIUM, a place in the ancient gymnafia, where
they played at the aleae.
ALEC, in ichthyology, an obfolete name a fpecies of
fparus. See Sparus.
ALECOST. SccAlcast.
ALECTORIA, a ftone faid to be formed in the gall¬
bladders of old cocks, to which the ancients afcribed
many fabulous virtues.
ALECTORICARDITES, the name of a ftcne refem-
bling a pullet’s head.
ALECTORIUS lapis. See Alectoria.
ALECTOROMANTIA, in Grecian antiquity, a fpe¬
cies of divination performed by means of a cock, in
the following manner: A circle being defcribed on the
ground, and divided into twenty-four equal portions,
in each of thefe fpaces was written one of the letters
of the alphabet, and on each of the letters was laid a
grain of wheat; after which a cock being turned loofe
in the circle, particular notice was taken of the grains
picked up by the cock, becaufe the letters under them,
being formed into a word, made the anfwer defired.
ALE AGAR, or Aleger, the name of a kind of vi¬
negar made of ale inftead of wine.
ALEGRETTE, a town of Portugal, in the province
of Alantejo, fituated on the river Caya; 7. 50. W.
long. 39. o. N. lat.
ALEIPHA, among ancient phyficians, the name of ani¬
mal or vegetable oils, when ufed as unguents.
ALEMBIC, in chemiftry. See Chemistry.
ALEMBROTH, an obfolete name of a kind of fixed
alkaline fait.
ALENGNER,
A I. E
ALENGNER, a town of Portugal, in the province of
Eftremadura, about twenty-feven miles N. E. of Lif-
bon.
ALENON fait, an obfolete name of the oil of almonds.
ALENTE JO, a province of Portugal, lying fouthward
of Tagus.
ALENZON, a flrong city of Normandy, fituated under
the fame meridian with London, in 48. 32. N. lat.
It is the capital of the dutchy of the fame name.
ALEORE, among ancient phyficians, denoted the in¬
tervals of eafe that alternately fucceed acute pains.
ALEPPO, a large city of Afiatic Turky, fituated in E.
long. 37. 4. and N. lat. 36. 30.
It is an inland town, lying almoft in the middle be¬
tween the river Euphrates and the Levant fea. The
Chriflians, who are allowed the free exercife of their
religion, have their houfes and churches in the fuburbs.
The beglerbeg of Aleppo commands the whole ex¬
tent of country, between the Levant-fea and the Eu¬
phrates.
ALERION, or Allerion, in heraldry. See Alle-
rion.
ALESSANO, a town of the kingdom of Naples, fitu¬
ated about twelves miles weft of the city Otranto.
ALESSIO, a town of European Turky, in the pro¬
vince of Albania, fituated near the mouth of the river
Drimo.
ALET, or Aleth, a city of France, fituated in the
Upper Languedoc, at the foot of the Pyrennees, about
thirty-two miles fouth-weft of Narbonne,' 2. o. E. long.
43. 10. N. lat.
ALETRIS, in botany, a genus of the hexandria mono-
gynia clafs. The corolla is tunnel-lhaped, the ftamina
are inferted into the bafe of the petals ; and the capfuie
confifts of three cells.. There are only three fpecies of
the aletris, viz. the farihofa, a native of America j
the capenfis, a native of the Cape of Good Hope ; and
the fragrans, a native of Africa. The two firft are
perennial plants, and the laft is a fruit-bearing fhrub.
Thefe are all ranked among the aloes of different au¬
thors. See Aloe.
ALEU ROM AN C Y, a fpecies of divination performed
by means of meal or flour.
ALEXANDERS, in botany. See Smyrnium.
ALEXANDRETTA, in geography, the fame with
Scanderoon. See the article Scanderoon.
A L G
ALEXANDRIA, a fea-port town of Egypt, fituated in
31. 15. E. long, and 30. 40. N. lat. about fourteen
miles weftward of the moft wefterly branch of the ri¬
ver Ni^e.
Alexandria is alfo the name of a city of Italy, fitu¬
ated on the river Tanaro, about forty miles N. W.
of Genoa, 8. 52. E. long. 44. 45. N. lat.
ALEXANDRIAN, or Al^xandrin, in poetry, a
kind of verfe, confiding of twelve, or of twelve and
thirteen fyllables alternately; fo called from a poem
on the life of Alexander, written in this kind of verfe
by fome French poet.
Alexandrines are peculiar to modern poetry, and
feem well adapted to epic poems. They are fome-
times ufed by moft nations of Europe, but chiefly by
the French, whofe tragedies are generally compofed
of Alexandrines.
ALEXANDRINUM, the name of a plafter defcribed
by Celfus.
ALEXICACUS. See Alexeterial.
Alexicacus was alfo a name under which the fiftier-
men ufed to invoke Neptune, to preferve their nets
from being torn to pieces by the fword-fifti.
ALEXIPHARMICS, among phyficians, properly figni-
fy medicines which correft or expel poifon.
ALEXITERIAL. See the laft article.
ALFAQUES, among the Moors, the name generally
ufed for their clergy, or thofe who teach the Maho¬
metan religion, in oppofition to the Morabites, who
anfwer to monks among Chriftians.
ALFELD, a town of Germany, in the biihoprick of
Hildelheim, and circle of Lower Saxony, fituated
about ten miles S. of Hildeflieim, in 9. 50. E. long,
and 52. o. N. lat.
ALFET, in our old cuftoms, denotes a caldron full of
boiling water, wherein an accufed perfon, by way of
trial or purgation, plunged his arm up to the elbow.
ALGA, in botany, the trivial name of the lichen, fu-
cus, and feveral other plants of the cryptogamia
clafs.
ALGAROT, in chemiftry, an Arabic term for an e-
metic powder, prepared from regulus of antimony,
diflblved in acids, and feparated by repeated lotions
in warm water.
ALGARVA, the moft foutherly province of the king¬
dom of Portugal.
( 79 )
ALGEBRA.
A LGEBRA is a general method of computation by
. certain figns and fymbols, which have been con¬
trived for this purpofe, and found convenient. It
is called an Universal Arithmetic, and proceeds
by operations and rules fimilar to thofe in common arith¬
metic, founded upon the fame principles. But as a
number of fymbols are admitted into this fcier.ce, being
necefiary for giving it that extent and generality which
is its greateft excellence, the import of thofe fymbols
muft be clearly ftated.
In geometry, lines are reprefented by a line, triangles
by a triangle, and other figures by a figure of the fame
kind: But, in algebra, cjuantities are reprefented by
the fame letters of the alphabet; and various figns have
been
ALGEBRA.
80
been imagined for reprefenting their affeftions, relations,
and dependencies.
The relation of equality is exprefled by the fign =;
t’ius, to exprefs that the quantity reprefentedby a is equal
to that which is reprefented by b, we writer = £. But
if we would exprefs that a is greater than b, we write
u -pT b ; and if we would exprefs algebraically that a is
lefs than b, we write a b.
Quantity is what is made up of parts, or is capa¬
ble of being greater or lefs. It is increafed by addition,
and dtminiihcd by fubtraftion ; which are therefore the
two primary operations that relate to quantity. Hence
it is, that any quantity may be fuppofed to enter into al¬
gebraic computations two different ways, which have con¬
trary effefts; either as an increment, or as a decrement;
that is, as a quantity to be added, or as a quantity to be
fubtra&ed. The fign + {plus) is the mark of addition,
and the fign — {minus) offubtraftion. Thus the quan¬
tity being reprefented by a, a imports that a is to be
added, or reprefents an increment; but, — a imports
that a is to be fubtrafted, and reprefents a decrement.
When feveral fuch quantities are joined, the figns ferve
to (hew which are to be added and which are to be fub-
trafted. Thus a -{■ b denotes the quantity that arifes
when a and b are both confidered as increments, and
therefore expreffes the fum of a and b. But a — b
denotes the quantity that arifes, when from the quantity
a the quantity b is fubtracted; and expreffes the excels
of a above b. When a is greater than b, then a — 3 is
itfelf an increment; when a — b, then a — £ = o ; and
when a is lefs than b, then a — £ is itfelf a decrement.
As addition and fubtraftion are oppofite, or an incre¬
ment is oppofite to a decrement, there is an analogous
oppofition between the affeftions of quantities that are
confidered in the mathematical fciences; as, between
excefs and defeft; between the value of effefts or mo¬
ney due to a man, and money due by him. When two
quantities, equal in refpeft of magnitude, but of thofe
oppofite kinds, are joined together, and conceived to
take place in the fame fubjeft, they deftroy each other’s
effeft, and their amount is nothing. Thus, too/, due
to a man and too /. due by him balance each other,
and in eftimating his ftock may be both neglefted. When
two unequal quantities of thofe oppofite qualities are join¬
ed in the fame fubjeft, the greater prevails by their dif¬
ference. And, when a greater quantity is taken from a
leffer of the fame kind, the remainder becomes of the
oppofite kind.
A quantity that is to be added is likewife called a po-
fitive quantity ; and a quantity to be fubtrafted is faid
to be negative : They are equally real, but oppofite to
each other, fo as to take away each other’s effeft, in a-
ny operation, when they are equal as to quantity. Thus,
3 — 3 = 0, and a — a — o. But though + a and
— a are equal as to quantity, we do not fuppofe in al¬
gebra that a — — a ; becaufe, to infer equality in this
fcience, they mult not only be equal as to quantity, but
pf the fame quality, that in every operation the one may
have the fame effeft as the other. A decrement may be
equal to an increment, but it has in all operations a con¬
trary effeft ; a motion downwards may be equal to a mo¬
tion upwards ; and the depreflioir of a liar below the ho-
rifon may be equal to the elevation of a liar above it:
But thofe pofitions are oppofite, and the diftance of the
ftars is greater than if one of them was at the horizon, fo
as to have no elevation above it, or depreffion below it.
It is on account of this contrariety, that a negative quan¬
tity is faid to be lefs than nothing, becaufe it is oppo¬
fite to the pofitive, and dhninifnes it when joined to it;
whereas the addition of o has no effeft. But a negative
is to be confidered no lefs as a real quantity than the po¬
fitive. Quantities that have no fign prefixed to them are
underftood to be pofitive.
The number prefixed to a letter is called the numeral
coefficient, and (hews how often the quantity reprefented
by the letter is to be taken. Thus 2 a imports that the
quantity reprefented by a is to be taken twice; 3 a that
it is to be taken thrice; andfo on. When no number is
prefixed, unit is underftood to be the coefficient. Thus
I is the coefficient of a or of £.
Quantities are faid to be like or fimilar, that are re¬
prefented by the fame letter or letters equally repeated.
Thus + 3 « and — 5 a are like; but a and £, or a and
a a are unlike.
A quantity is faid to confift of as many terms as there
are parts joined by the figns + or —; thus a-\-b con-
fifts of two terms, and is called a binomial; a + £ + c
confifts of three terms, and is called a trinomial. Thefe
are called compound quantities : A ftmple quantity con¬
fifts of one term only, as + ^, or + « £, or + a £ t\
Chap. I. Of Addition.
CASE I. To add quantities that are like, and
have like fgns.
Rule. Add together the coefficients, to their fum pre¬
fix the common fign, and fubjoin the common letter
or letters.
Example. To q a to —6£ to a + b
Add + 4 a add — 2 £ add 3 « j £
Sum + 9 « Sum — 8£ Sum4<H-6£
Case II. To add quantities that are like, but have
unlike fgns.
Rule. Subtraft the leffer coefficient from the greater,
prefix the fign of the greater to the remainder, and
fubjoin the common letter or letters.
Examp. To ■—4a I + 5 £ — 6c
Add + I — 3£+8c
Sum ^ a 2£ + 2C
This rule is eafily deduced from the nature of pofitive
and negative quantities.
If there are more than two quantities to be added to¬
gether, firft add the pofitive together into one fum, and
then the negative (by Cafe I.); then add thefe two fums
together (by Cafe II.)
Case
E
A L G
B R
81
Case III. To add quantities that are unlike.
Rule. Set them all down one after another, with
their figns and coefficients prefixed.
Example. To 2 +3*
Add -j- 3 £ •— 4 x
Sum 2 a 1, b
Chap. II. Of Subtraction.
General Rule. “ Change the figns of the quan-
“ tity to be fubtradted into their contrary figns, and
“ then add it fo changed to the quantity from which
“ it was to be fubtradted, (by the rules of the laft chap-
“ ter): the fum arifing by this addition is the remain-
“ der.” For, to fubtradl any quantity, either pofitire
or negative, is die fame as to add the oppofite kind.
Examp. From -jr a a 8 a — q b
Subtradt + 3* 3^+4^
Remaind. 5 a — 3#, or2<* q a — ni
It is evident, that to fubtradl or take away a decre¬
ment is the fame as adding an equal increment. If we
take away — b from a — b, there remains a; and iF
we add b to a — b, the fum is likewife a. In gene¬
ral, the fubtradlion of a negative quantity is equivalent
to adding its pofitive value.
The lid and IVth Cafes may be illuftrated in the fol¬
lowing manner.
By the definitions, a — a = O; therefore if we
multiply a — a by », the produdl mull vaniffi, or be
o, becaufe the fadtor a — « is o. The firll term of the
produdt is -J- « (by Cafe I.) Therefore the fecond
term of the produdl mult be — n a, which deftroys
+ « ; fo that the whole produdt muft be + « « — no.
— o. Therefore — a multiplied by + « gives — n a.
In like manner, if we multiply a — a by — n,
the firft term of the produdt being — n a, the latter term
of the produdl mull be + « «; becaufe the two toge¬
ther muft deftroy each other, or their amount be o, fince
one of the fadtors (viz. a — a) is o. Therefore — a
multiplied by — «, muft give n a.
In this general dodtrine, the multiplicator is always
confidered as a number. A quantity of any kind may
be multiplied by a number.
If the quantities to be multiplied are Jimple quanti¬
ties, “ find the fign of the produdl by the laft rule; af-
“ ter it place the produdt of the coefficients, and then
“ fet down all the letters after one another as in one
word.”
Examp. Mult. + a 1 —2 a J 6x
By U. ‘ + 46 ' ~
Prod. + ab —Sab —30a*
Mult. — 8 x 1 + 3 £
By —4a \ — Sac
Chap. III. 0/Multiplication.
In Mutiplication, the general rule for the figns is,
That ’when the figns of the fattors are like, (i. e. both
or both —), the fign of the product is +; but ’when
the figns of the factors are unlike, the fg'n of the pro¬
duct is —.
Case I. When any pofitive quantity, + a, is multi¬
plied by any pofitive number, + n, the mean-
is. That + a is to be taken as many times as
there are units in n; and the produdt is evi¬
dently n a.
Case II. When — a is multiplied by n, then — an
to be taken as often as there are units in n,
and the produdt muft be — n a.
Case III. Multiplication by a pofitive number implies a
repeated addition: But multiplication by a
negative implies a repeated fubtradlion. And
when + cr is to be multiplied by — n, the
meaning is, That + a is to be fubtradted as
often as there .are units in n : Therefore the
produdt is negative, being — n a.
Case IV. When — « is to be multiplied by — «, then
— a is to be fubtradted as often as there are
units in n ; but (by chap. II.) to fubtradl — a
is equivalent to adding + a, confequently the
produdt is -j- » #.
VqL. I. No. 4. 3
Prod, -f- 3 2 « x — 15 a a b c
To multiply compound quantities, you muft “ multiply
every part of the multiplicand by all the parts of the
multiplier, taken one after another, and then colledt
all the produdts into one fum: That fum ffiall be the
produdl required.”
Examp. Mult, a b
By a b
2 a —
4 * +
3*
5*
Prod. ^ a
+ ab
+ ab+bb
C Saa— i2ab
£ -\-10ab —
■iSbb
Sum a a -{■ 2 a b-\- bb Saa — 2ab — \$bb
Mult, aa + ab + bb
By a—b
Prod. £*** + *
b+abb
b—abb — bbb
Sum aaa..o... o..—-bib
Produdts that arife from the multiplication of two,
three, or more quantities, ss a b c, are faid to be of
two, three, or more divtenfions; and thofe quantities
are called factors or roots.
If all the fadtors are equal, then thefe produdts are
called powers; as a a, or a a a, are powers of a.
Powers are exprefied fometimes by placing above the
f X root.
3
B
82
A L G E
root, to the right hand, a figure exprefling the number
of factors that produce them. Thus,
a ^ ^ 1 ft-.Power of the
a a Vsd J root*/, and
a a a V^-^jdv is firortly
a a a a \ g A 4th N exprefl'ed
a a a a a ^ m ^ jth - thus,
Thefe figures which exprefs the number of fadors that
produce powers, are called their indices or exponents;
thus 2 is the index of az. And powers of the fame root
are multiplied by adding their exponents. Thus X a3
Sometimes it is ufeful not adtually to multiply com¬
pound quantities, but to fet them down with the fign of
multiplication (X) between them, drawing a line over
each of the compound factors. Thus a + £ X a — b
exprefies the produft of a multiplied by a — b.
Chap. IV. 0/Division.
The fame rule for the figns is to be obferved in divi-
fion as in multiplication ; that is, “ If the figns of the
“ dividend and divifor are like, the fign of the quotient
“ muft be +;■ if they are unlike, the fign of the quo-
tient muft be •—.” This will be eafily deduced from
the rule in multiplication, if you confider, that the quo¬
tient muft be fuch a quantity as, multiplied by the divi¬
for, fhall give the dividend.
The general rule in divifion is, “ to place the dividend
“ above a fmall line, and the divifor under it, expun-
“ ging any letters that may be found in all the quanti-
“ ties of the dividend and divifor, and dividing the co-
“ efficients of all the terms by any common meafure.”
Thus, when you divide 10 a b 15 a c by 20 a d, ex¬
punging a out of all the terms, and dividing all the
coefficients by 5, the quotient is > aDc^
“ Powers of the fame root are divided by fubtra&ing
“ their exponents, as they are multiplied by adding
“ them.” Thus, if you divide as by a%, the quotient
is z or a3. And b6 divided by b4 gives b6—4 or b*;
and a7 bs divided by a7 b7, gives a5 for the quotient.
“ If the quantity to be divided is compound, then
“ you muft range its parts according to the dimenfions of
“ fome one of its letters, as in the following example.”
In the dividend a* -}• 2 a h -j- b*, they are ranged ac¬
cording to the dimenfions of a, the quantity a2, where
« is of two dimenfions, being placed firft, 2 a b, where
it is of one dimenfion, next, and b2, where a is not at
all, being placed laft. “ The divifor muft be ranged
according to the dimenfions of the fame letters; then
“ you are to divide the firft term of the dividend by the
“ firft term of the divifor, and to fet down the quotient,
“ which, in this example, is a; then multiply this quo-
“ tient by the whole divifer, and fubtraft the product
■ ‘ from the dividend, and the remainder ffiall give a new
“ dividend, which, in this example, is a £ + b2.”
R A.
a b) a1 2 a b b* {a b
a2 a b
a b + b'
a b + b*
o . o.
“ Divide the firft term of this new dividend by the
“ firft term of the divifor, and fet down the quotient,
“ (which in this example is ,£), with its proper fign.
“ Then' multiply the whole divifor by this part of the
“ quotient, and fubtract the product from the new divi-
cc dend ; and if there is no remainder, the divifion is fi-
" niffied :1” If there is a remainder, you are to proceed
after the fame manner, till no remainder is left; or till
it appear that there will be always fomc remainder.
Some examples will illuftrate this operation.
Examp. I. a b) a2 — b1 (a — b
a2 a b
— ab — P
■— a b — bx
o . o .
Examp.II. a—V) aaa—^aabf-^abb—bbb{aa—2abfbb
aaa— aab
—o/ab+inbb—bbb
—2aab-\-2abb
abb—bbb
abb—bbb
o . o .
It often happens, that the operation may be continued
without end, and then you have an infinite feries for the
quotient; and by comparing the firjl three or four terms
you may find what law the terms obferve: by which
means, without any more divijion, you may continue the
quotient as far as you pleafe. Thus, in dividing 1 by
11— a, you find the quotient to be \ -\-a-\-aa-\-aaa
a a a a <bc. which feries can be continued as far as
you pleafe, by adding the powers of a.
The operation is thus:
1 — a) 1 (i+a + aa + aaa, .
1— a
+ a
-)r a — a a
a a a
a a a — a a a a
+ a a a a, <bc.
Note, The fign -f- placed between any two quanti¬
ties.
A L G E
ties, exprefTes the quotient of the former divided by the
latter. Thus, a + b ^ a — x is the quotient o£ a 6,
divided by # — x.
Chap. V. O/-Fractions.
In the laft chapter it was faid, that the quotient of any
quantity a, divided by b, is expreffed by placing a a-
bove a finall line, and b under it, thus, —. Thefe
a
quotients are alfo called fractions; and the dividend, or
quantity placed above the line, is called the numerator
of the fraction, and the divifor, or quantity placed un¬
der the line, is called the denominator.
“ If the numerator of a fraftion be equal to the de-
“ nominator, then the fraction is equal to unity. Thus,
“ — and — are equal to unit. If the numerator is
“ greater than the denominator, then the fradion is
“ greater than unit.” In/both thefe cafes, the fradion
is called improper. But “ if the numerator is lefs than
“ the denominator, then the fradion is lefs than unit,”
and is called proper. Thus, is an improper frac¬
tion ; but — and — are proper fradions. A mixt
quantity is that whereof one part is an integer, and the
other a frattion. As 3 -j- and y and ^ .
BRA. 83
Rule. Multiply each numerator, feparately taken, in¬
to all the denominators but its own, and the produds
fhall give the new numerators. Then multiply all the
denominators into one another, and the produd fhall
give the common denominator. Thus,
The fradions — > iL» are refpedively equal to
thefe fradions y’ which have the
bed bed bed
fame denominator bed. And the fradions -f, f, are
refpedively equal to thefe £§, -Jl-
PROBLEM IV.
T'o Ad ir and Subtract fraftioni.
Rule. Reduce them to a common denominator, and
add or fubtrad the numerators ; the fum or difference
fet over the common denominator, is the fum or re¬
mainder required.
a _j_ c^_d_ade-\-bce-\-dzb a   c _
T ^ ~d'Y~e TTe ; T ~d ~
± + ± = * + 9=11 = 1^: ± 1
bd 3 4 12 12 4 3
-9—8 -. 1 . J_ 3 _ 16— 1; _ x . _x 
12 12 ’ 5 4 20 2Q 2
x   3 x — 2 x   -v
”3 " 6 T'
PROBLEM I.
To reduce a Mixt quantity Improper
Fraction.
Rule. Multiply the part that is an integer by the de¬
nominator of the fradional part; and to the produd
■ add the numerator; under their fum place the former
denominator.
Thus 2 -f reduced to an improper fradion gives ^ ;
. a* ab-^ro1 , . az ax a* x*
a + -7-z=- } ; and a—x -j-   .
b b xx
PROBLEM II.
To reduce in Improper fraSiion to a
Mixt Quantity.
Rule. Divide the numerator of the fradion by the
denominator, and the quotient fhall give the integral
part; the remainder fet over the denominator fhall
he the fradional part.
PROBLEM III.
PROBLEM V.
To Multiply frafiionr.
Rule. Multiply their numerators one into another to
obtain the numerator of the produd ; and their deno¬
minators multiplied into one another fhail give the de¬
nominator of the produd. Thus,
JL x — = — t -Lx A =
b d b U 1 5 15
If a mixt quantity is to be multiplied, firfl reduce it
to the form of a fradion (by Prob. L) And, if an in¬
teger is to be multiplied by a fradion, you may reduce
it to the form of a fradion by placing unit under it.
Examp. 5 —X — = eL X-L = i-1.
3 4 3 4 12
PROBLEM VI.
To Divide Fraftionrt
Rule. Multiply the numerator of the dividend by the
denominator of the divifor, their produd fhall give
the numerator of the quotient. Then multiply the
denominator of the dividend by the numerator of the
divifor, and their produd fhall give the denominator.
To reduce fraflions of different denominations to 4\ 2 /io. 3 \ 5! / 3 5 _ c \ a_ / a d
fradions of equal value that Jhall have ike fame de- US> \I2 ’ ~ff) 8 \ 24 ’ ~d ) b
nominator. cp
84
G
E
A L
B 11 A.
PROBLEM VII.
To find the greateji common meafure of tivo num¬
bers ; that is, the greateft number that can divide them
both without a remainder.
Rule. Firft divide the greater number by the lefler,
and if there is no remainder, the lefler number is the
greateft: common divifor required. If there is a re¬
mainder, divide your laft divifor by it; and thus pro¬
ceed continually, dividing the laft divifor by its re¬
mainder, till there is no remainder left, and then the
laft divifor is the greateft common meafure required.
Thus, the greateft common meafure of 45 and 63
is 9 ; and the greateft common meafure of 256
and 48 is 16.
45) 63 (1 48) 256 (S
45 2 4°
18) 45 (2
36
16) 48 (3
48
9) 18 (2 o
18
o
Much after the fame manner the greateft common
meafure of algebraic quantities is difcovered; only the
remainders that arife in the operation are to be divi¬
ded by their fimple divifors, and the quantities are al¬
ways to be ranged according to the dimenfions of the
fame letter.
Thus to find the greateft common meafure of ax — b*
and ad — 2 a b b1 •,
a1 —£l) ad — 2 ab -\-bl (1
a1 •— bz
— 2 a b 2 b* Remainder,
which divided by —2 £ is reduced to
a — b) a* —b2 (ab
a2 — b2
o • O .
Therefore a — b is the greateft common meafure re¬
quired.
The ground of this operation is, That any quantity
that meafures the divifor and the remainder (if there is
any) muft alfo meafure the dividend; becaufe the dividend
is equal to the fum of the divifor multiplied into the quo¬
tient, and of the remainder added together. Thus, in
the laft example, a—3 meafures the divifor ad —3*,
and the remainder —2 ab-\-2b \ it muft therefore like-
wife meafure their fum a2 — 2 « 3 -j- 3s. You muft ob-
ferve in this operation to make that the dividend which
has the higheft powers of the letter, according to which
the quantities are ranged.
PROBLEM VIII.
To reduce any fraftion to its low eft terms.
mon meafure, and place the quotients in their room,
and you (hall have a fra&ion equivalent to the given
fraction exprefled in the leaft terms.
Thus, 25 M 75 *3f _ 3_a _ 156 a a 4- i$6 a b__
2sbc)i2sbcx sx> S72 a a — 572 a3
, 3*+33
xx * — ix3‘
When unit is the greateft common meafure of the
numbers and quantities, then the fraction is already in its
loweft terms. Thus ^— cannot be reduced lower.
5 d c
And, numbers whofe greateft common meafure is
unit, are faid to be prime to one another. 1
If a vulgar fraction is to be reduced to a decimal (that
is, a fraction whofe denomination is 10, or any of its
powers,) “ annex as many cyphers as you pleafe to the
“ numerator, and then divide it by the denominator, the
“ quotient (hall give a decimal equal to the vulgar frac-
“ tion propofed.” Thus,
y= .2857142, be.
Thefe fractions are added and fubtraefted like whole
numbers; only care muft be taken to fet fitsiilar places
above one another, as units above units, and tenths a-
bove tenths, be. They are multiplied and divided as
integer numbers; only there mujl be as many decimal
places in the product as in both the multiplicand and
multiplier; and in the quotient as many as there are in the
dividend more than in the divifor. And in divifion the
quotient may be continued to any degree of exa&nefs
you pleafe, by adding cyphers to the dividend. The
ground of thefe operations is eafily underftood from the
general rules for adding, multiplying, and dividing
fractions.
Chap. VI. Of the Involution of
Qu A n t 1 t 1 e s.
The products arifing from the continual multiplica¬
tion of the fame quantity were called (in Chap. III.)
the powers of that quantity. Thus, a, a2, a1, be.
are the pbwers of a\ and* 3, ** 31, *3 33, be. are
the powers of * 3. In the fame chapter, the rule for
the multiplication of powers of the fame quantity is, “ To
“ add the exponents, and make their fum the exponent
“ of the produft.” Thus a4 X as = *s ; and a3 33 X
ad b1 —a9 3s. In Chap. IV. you have the rule for di¬
viding powers of the fame quantity, which is “ To fub-
“ trad the exponents, and make the difference the expo-
“ nent of the quotient.”
Thus, ~ — af — 4—a2-, and =as—4 33—1 =*3\
a4 «4 3
Rule. Find the greateft common meafure of the nu- Tfjsa divide a leffer power by a greater, the expo-
merator and denominator j divide them by that com- nent of the quotient muf, by this rule, be negative.
Thus,
Thus,
ALGEBRA. 85
, —r- ~ a* — 6 — a — 1. But, —g — —j ; and
’a6 a6 a
hence ~ is exprefled alfo by az with a negative ex¬
ponent.
It is alfo obvious, that — = a* —xzsa° ; but— = I,
a a
and therefore a° = i. After the fame manner — =— =
a a
= «°—3 = a—3; fo that the quantities a, I, -L*
_L , _L, &c. may be exprelfed thus, «*, a°, a—*,
a * a 4
a—1, «—3, 4, fee. Thofe are called the negative
powers of a which have negative exponents ; but they
are at the fame time pojitive powers of — or a—1.
Negative powers (as well as pojitive) are multiplied
iy adding, and divided by fubtratting their exponents.
Thus the produit of a~x (or E-j multiplied by a—*
(or is <j—1t3 = * —J (or -L ; ^ alfo a—6 X
a* — a — 6 + 4 = a — 1 (or~L;j and a — 3 X
a3 = a° = i. And, in general, any pojitive power of
a multiplied by a negative power of & of an equal expo¬
nent gives unit for the produtt; for the pofitive and
negative deftroy each other, and the produd gives <j°,
which is equal to unit.
Likewife -—• = «“5 + 2 = a—3 = -L ; and -—- =
a~x «3 «—5
« — 2 + 5 = a3. But alfo, *—- —   =
a—^ a-1 X «~3
—E-j therefore ——, —az : And, in general, “ A-
a 1 a—i
“ ny quantity placed in the denominator of a fradion
“ may be tranfpofed to the numerator, if the lign of its
“ exponent be changed.” Thus-L = a—3, and -~zz
The quantity am exprefles any power of a in general,
the exponent ( ) being undetermined; and a—m ex¬
prefles —, or a negative power of a of an equal expo-
ponent: and am x a—m — am~rn—a° = 1 is their pro-
dud. a" exprefles any other power of a ; am X an —
am’\-n is the predud of the powers am and and
am—n js thgif quotient.
To raife any Ample quantity to its fecond, third, or
fourth power, is to add its exponent twice, thrice, or
four times to itfelf; therefore the fecond power of any
quantity is had by doubling its exponent, and the third
by trebling its exponent; and, in general, the power
exprejfed by m of any quantity is had by multiplying the
exponent by m. as is obvi us from the multiplicat on of
powers. Th is the fecond power or fquare of a is
Vol. I. No. 4. 3
a ^ '—a1 ; its third power or cube is a ~a%; and the
m'h power of a is a”'*1 =am. Alfo, the fquare of a4
isa*X4=as; the cube of a4 is a3X4=a11; and the
mth power of a4 is a4X™. The fquare of a b c is
a1 b* ex, the cube is a3 b3 c3, the /wth power am bm cm.
The raiflng of quantities to any power is called invo¬
lution, and any Jimple quantity is involved by multiply¬
ing the exponent by that of the power required, as in the
preceding examples.
The coefficient mujl alfo be raifed to the fasne power
by a continual multiplication of itfelf by itielf, as often
as unit is contained in the exponent of the power requi¬
red. Thus the cube of 3 a £ is 3 x 3 x 3 x a3 £3 =
27 a3 b*.
As to the figns, When the quantity to be involved is
pofitive, it is obvious that all its powers mufi be poftive.
And, when the quantity to be involved is negative, yet all
its powers, whofe exponents are even numbers, mufi be po¬
fitive : for any number of multiplications of a negative,
if the number be even, gives a pofitive; fince — x —
= +, therefore — x — x — x — z= + x + = -)-; and
— x — x — x — x — x — = + x-fx + = -f-.
The power then only can be negative when its expo¬
nent is an odd number, though the quantity to be invol¬
ved be negative. The powers of —a are —a,+ a1,
•—a3, +a4, —a5, fee. Thofe whofe exponents are
2, 4, 6, fee. are pofitive; hut thofe whofe exponents
are 1, 3, 5, fee. are negative.
The involution of compound quantities is a more diffi¬
cult operation. The powers of any binomial a + ^ are
found by a continual multiplication of it by itfelf, as fol¬
lows :
a-\-b— Root.
Xa-M
a*-\-a b
+ ab + bx
a1 2 a b b1 — the fquare or 2d power.
X a -M
a3 2 az b a b*
+ a1 £ + 2 a £* + 33
a3 + 3aI£4-3ai1+£3=: cube or 3d power, fee.
If the powers of a — b are required, they will be
found the fame as the preceding, only the terms in which
the exponent of b is an odd number, will be found ne¬
gative ; “ becaufe an odd number of multiplications of
“ a negative produces a negative.” Thus, the cube of
a — b will be found to be a3 — 3 a* £ + 3 a — 33:
Where the 2d and 4th terms are negative, the exponent
of b being an odd number in thefe terms. In general,
“ The terms of any power of a — b are pofitive and
“ negative by turns.”
It is to be obferved, That “ in the firft term of any
power of a rp b, the quantity a has the exponent of
the power required; that in the following terms, the
exponents of a decreafe gradually by the fame diifer-
f Y ence
86 A L G E
cnce (viz. unit), and that in the laft terms it is never
found. The powers of b are in the contrary order; it
is not found in the firft term, but its exponent in the fe-
cond term is unit, in the third term its exponent is 2 ;
and thus its exponent iricreafes, till in the lad: term it
becomes equal to the exponent of the power required.”
As the exponents of a thus decreafe, and at the
dime time thofe of b increafe, “ the fum of their
“ exponents is always the fame, and is equal to the
“ exponent of the power required.” Thus, in the
6th power o£ a -{• b, viz. a0 6 a* b 15 rt1 bx
+ 20 «3 + 15 «1 + 6 £s + £ 6, the exponents
of a decreafe in this order, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1,0; and
thofe of b increafe in the contrary order, o, 1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6. And the fum of their exponents'in any term is
always 6.
To find the coefficient of any term, the coefficient of
the preceding term being known, you are to “ divide the
“ coefficient of the preceding term by the exponent of
<e b in the given term, and to multiply the quotient by
<s the exponent of a in the fame term, increafed by u-
“ nit.” Thus to find the coefficients of the terms of
the 6th power of a b, you find the terms are
a6, as b, a4 b1, J3 b*, a* b\ a bs, b6 ;
and you know the coefficient of the firft term is unit;
therefore, according to the rule, the coefficient of the
fecond term will be — X 5 + x = 6; that of the third
term will be -~X 4+1=3X5 = 15; that of the
fourth term will be -y- X 3 + 1 = 5 X 4 = 20 ; and
thofe of the following will be 15, 6, 1, agreeable to the
preceding table.
In general, a b is to be raifed to any power mr
the terms, without their coefficients will be am—'bT
am—xbx, am—3£3, am—4£4, um—;bs, &c. continued till
the exponent of b becomes equal to m.
The coefficients of the refpedtive terms, according to
the laft rule, will be
&c. continued until yon have one coefficient more than
there are units in m.
It follows therefore by thefe laft rules, that a bm
= + m am—xb -f 7M X —— X -}-w X^—1
2 2
X —-X 3 P + w X X X -Til X
3 ,234
X a™—4 +, &c. which is the general theorem for
raifing a quantity confifting of two terms to any power »/.
If a quantity confifting of three or more terms is to be
involved, “ you may diftinguifti it into two parts, confi-
dering it as a binomial, and raife it to any power by
the preceding rules; and then, by the fame rules, you
may fubftitute, inftead of the powers of thele compound
parts, their values.” Thus,
B R A.
« ft- £ -j- £•*=<?+£ + c =r/ + £*+aeXtf-+-£ -K*
= «* + 2«3 + ^4' + 2<«c + 2^C + Cs.
In thefe examples, a + i + c is confidered as com*
pofed of the compound part a Arb and the fimple part c\
and then the powers of « + 6 are formed by the prece¬
ding rules, and fubftituted for a'+A3 and a
Chap. VII. O/’Evolut i on.
The reverfe of involution, or the refolving of powers
into their roots, is called evolution. The roots of fingle
quantities arc eafily extracted “ by dividing their expo-
“ nents by the number that denominates the root re-
“ quired.” Thus, tlie fquare root of a8 is a^ — a4 ; and
the fquare root of a4 b8 e1 is a2 b4 c. The cube root of
a6 b3 is b^—a2 b ; and the cube root of x9y6 z2 2 is
x3 y2 z4. The ground of this rule is obvious from the
rule for involution. The powers of any root are found
by multiplying its exponent by the index that denominates
the power; and therefore, when any power is given, the
root muft be found by dividing the exponent of the given
power by the number that denominates the kind of root
that is required.
It appears, from what was faid of involution, that
“ amy power that has a pofitive fign may have either a
“ pofitive or negative root, if the root is denominated
by any even number.” Thus the fquare-root of +31
may be -f-a or'—a, becaufe -f-aX-f-u or —a X—a gives.
-j-a1 for the produCI.
But if a power have a negative fign, “ no root of it
r< denominated by an even number can be be affigned,”
fince there is no quantity that multiplied into itfdf an
even number of times can give a negative produCt. Thus
the fquare root of—a2 cannot be alligned, and is what we
call an impojftble or imaginary quantity.
But if the root to be extracted is denominated by an
odd number, then (hall “ the fign of the root be the fame
as the fign of the given number whofe root is required.”
Thus the cube root of — a3 is •—a, and the cube root of
—a6 b3 is *—a2 b.
Jf the number that denominates the root required is a
divifor cf the exponent of the given power, then lhall the
root be only a lower power of the fame quantity. As the
cube root of rt11 is a4, the number 3 that denominates
the cube root being a divifor of 12.
But if the number that denominates what fort of root
is required is not a divifor of the exponent of the given
power, “ then the root required fhall have a fraction for
its exponent.” Thus the fquare root of a 3 is the cube
root of as is a-fj ancl the fquare root of a itfelf is a^.
Thefe powers that have fractional exponents are called
imperfeft powers or furds; and are otherwife exprefied
by placing the given power within the radical fign f ~,
and placing above the radical fign the number that deno¬
minates what kind of root is required. Thus / a3 >
af=^/as; and an —</am. In numbers the fquare root
of 2 is exprefied by y' 2, and the cube root of 4 by 4.
The
ALGEBRA. 87
The fquare root of any compound quantity, as a*+
2 a b b* is difcovered after this manner. “ Firft,
“ take care to dilpofe the terms according to the dimen-
“ fions of the alphabet, as in divifion ; then find the
“ fquare root of the firft term a a, which gives a for the
“ firft member of the root. Then fubtradt its fquare
“ from the propofed quantity, and divide the firft term
“ of the remainder (2ab+b1) by the double of that mem-
“ ber, viz. 2a, and the quotient b is the fecond member
fe of the root. Add this fecond member to the double
“ of the firft, and multiply their fum (2a+b) by the fe-
“ cond member b, and fubtradt the product (2ab~\~bz)
<( from the forefaid remaindei ^2ab-\~bl) and if nothing
“ remains, then the fquare root is obtained;” and in this
example it is found to be « +
The manner of the operation is thus,
a'+2ab+b1 [a+b
2a-\-b\2ab-\-b1
x.b ) 2ab-\-bz
0.0
“ But if there had been a remainder, you muft have
“ divided it by the double of the fum of the two parts
“ already found, and the quotient would have given the
“ third member of the root.”
Thus, if the quantity propofed had been a'l-\-2ab-\-
2 ac-\-b1 -{-2 bc-\-c1, after proceeding as above, you would
have found the remainder 2ac-\-2bc-\-c1, which divided
by 2a-\-2b gives c to be annexed to as the 3d mem¬
ber of the root. Then adding eto 2a-\-2b, and multiply¬
ing their fum 2a-\-2b-\-c by c, fubtraft the produdt 2ac-}-
2bc+c2 from the forefaid remainder; and fince nothing
now remains, you conclude that a-\-b+c is the fquare
root required.
The fquare root of any number is found out after the
fame manner. If it is a number under 100, its heareft
fquare root is found by the following table ; by which al-
fo its cube root is found if it be under 1000, and is bi¬
quadrate if it be under 10000.
The root!
Square
Cube
jBiquad.
I 2I 3
tn
18I27,
16)81)256
-I—^1-
25! 
25I 216
625) i2$6| 2401) 4096
-4
J49I
3431
729
656
But if it is a number above 100, then its fquare root
will confift of two or more figures, which muft be found
by different operations by the following
Rule.
“ To find the fquare root of any number, place a
“ point above the number that is in the place of units,
“ pafs the place of tens, and place again a point over that
“ of hundreds, and goon towards the left hand placing a
“ point over every 2d figure; and by thefe points the
“ number will be diftinguilhed into as many parts as
“ there are figures in the root. Then find the fquare
“ root of the firft part, and it will give the firft figure of
“ the root; fubtraft its fquare from that part, and an-
“ nex the fecond part of the given number to the re-
“ mainder. Then divide this new number (negle&ing
“ its laft figure) by the double of the firft figure of the
“ root, annex the quotient to that double, and multiply
“ the number thence arifing by the faid quotient, and if
“ the product is lefs than your dividend, or equal to it,
“ that quotient lhall be the fecond figure of the root.
“ Bht if the product is greater than the dividend, you
“ muft ta.ke a lefs number for the fecond figure of
t; the root than that quotient.” Much after the fame
manner may the other figures of the quotient be found,
if there are more points than two placed over the given
number.
To find the fquare root of 99856, firft point it thus,
99856; then find the fquare root of 9 to be 3, which
therefore is the firft figure of the root; fubtradl 9, die
fquare of 3, from 9, and to the remainder annex the fe¬
cond part 98, and divide (negledting the laft figure 8) by
the double of 3, or 6, and place the quotient after 6,
and then multiply 61 by 1, and fubtradt the produdt 61
from 98. Then to the remainder (37) annex the laft
part of the propofed number (56), and dividing 3756 (ne-
glefting the laft figure 6) by the double of 31, that is by
62, place the quotient after, and multiplying 626 by the
quotient 6, you will find the produdt to be 3756, which
fubtradted from the dividend, and leaving no remainder,
the exadt root muft be 316.
Examp. 99856 (316
9
61x98
xi ^61
626\3756
X6/3756
o
In general, to extradl any root out of any given quan¬
tity, “ Firft range that quantity according to thedimen-
“ fions of its letters, and extract the faid root out of the
“ firft term, and that lhall be the firft member of the
“ root required. Then raife this root to a dimenfion
“ lower by unit than the number that denominates the
“ root required, and multiply the power that arifes by
“ that number itfelf; divide the fecond term of the
“ given quantity by the produdt, and the quotient ftiall
“ give the fecond member of the root required.”
Thus to extradt the root of the 5th power out of a5-\-
5tf4iH-io<73£1+ioaI find, that the root
of the 5 th power out of as gives a, which I raife to the
4th power, and multiplying by 5, the produdt is 5a4;
then dividing the fecond term of the given quantity $a*b
by 5tf4, I find b to be the fecond member ; and raifing
a-\-b to the 5th power, and fubtradling it, there being no
remainder, 1 conclude that a-\-b is the root required. If
the root has three members, the third is found after the
fame manner from the firft two confidered as one mem¬
ber, as the fecond member was found from the firft ;
which may be cafily underftood from what was faid of
extradling the fquare root.
In
88 ALGEBRA.
In extracting roots it will often happen that the exaCt
root cannot be found in finite terms; thus the fquare
root of a1 + x1 is found to be
a aa 8a1 16a5 128a7 ’ '^e'
The operation is thus;
2a 8a5 x6as
—, tee.
X —) = x* +-^-J
2a/ 4a*
2a^r a 8a3) 4a*
 x«_, x8
X 8a3/ — 4a1 8a4 64a6
&c.
Cf The general theorem which we gave for the invo-
“ lution of binomials will ferve alfo for their evolu-
“ tion;” becaufe to extract any root of a given quan¬
tity is the fame thing as to raife that quantity to a
power whofe exponent is a fraction that has its denomi¬
nator equal to the number that expreffes what kind of
root is to be extracted. Thus, to extract the fquare
root of a + A is to raife a + A to a power whofe expo¬
nent is
The roots of numbers are to be extracted as thofe of
algebraic quantities. “ Place a point over the units,
“ and then place points over every third, fourth, or
“ fifth figure towards the left hand, according as it is
“ the root of the cube, of the 4th or jth power that is
“ required; and, if there be any decimals annexed to
“ the number, point them after the fame manner, pro-
“ ceeding from the place of units towards the right-
“ hand. By this means the number will be divided in-
“ to fo many periods as there are figures in the root re-
“ quired. Then inquire which is the greateft cube,
“ biquadrate, or 5th power in the firll period, and the
“ root of that power will give the firft figure of the root
“ required. Subtract the greateft cube, biquadrate, or
“ jth power, from the firft period, and to the remainder
“ annex the firft figure of your fecond period, which
“ lhall give your dividend.
“ Raife the firft figure already found to a power lefs
“ by unit than the power whofe root is fought, that is,
“ to the 2d, 3d, or 4th power, according as it is the
“ cube root, the root of the 4th, or the root of the
“ 5th power that is required, and multiply that power
“ by the index of the cube, 4th, or 5th power, and di-
“ vide the dividend by this produCl, fo lhall the quo-
*“ tient be the fecond figure of the root required.
“ Raife the part already found of the root, to the
“ power whofe root is required, and if that power be
“ found lefs than the two firft periods of the given num-
“ ber, the fecond figure of the root is right. But, if
“ it be found greater, you muft diminilh the fecond fi-
“ gure of the root till that power be found equal to or
“ lefs than thofe periods of the given number. Sub-
“ traCt it, and to the remainder annex the next period;
M and proceed till you have gone through the whole gi-
w ven number, finding the third figure by means of the
“ two firft, as you found the fecond by the firft; and
** afterwards finding the fourth figure (if there be a
“ fourth period) after the fame manner from the three
“ firft.”
Thus to find the cube root of 13824, point it 13824 ;
find the greateft cube in 13, v/z. 8, whofe cube root 2 is
the firft figure of the root required. Subtract 8 from 13,
and to the remainder 5 annex 8, the firft figure of the fe¬
cond period; divide 58 by triple the fquare of 2, v/z.
12, and the quotient is 4, which is the fecond figure of
the root required, fince the cube of 24 gives 13824, the
number propofed. After the fame manner the cube root
of 1331.2053 is found to be 237.
13824 (24
Subtr. 8 = 2x2x2
3x4=12) 58 (4
Subtr. 24x24x24=13824
Rem. ... o . .
In extracting of roots, after you have gone through
the number propofed, if there is a remainder, you may
continue the operation by adding periods of cyphers to
that remainder, and find the true root in decimals to any
degree of exaCtnefs.
Chap. VIII. 0/'Proportion.
When quantities of the fame kind are compared, it
may be confidered, either how much the one is greater
than the other, and what is their difference; or, it may
be confidered how many times the one is contained in
the other; or, more generally, what is their quotient.
The firft relation of quantities is expreffed by their a-
rUhtnetical ratio; the fecond by their geometrical ra¬
tio. That term whofe ratio is inquired into is called the
antecedent, and that with which it is compared is called
the confequent.
When of four quantities the difference betwixt the
firft and fecond is equal to the difference betwixt the
third and fourth, thofe quantities are called arithmetical
proportionals •, as the numbers 3, 7, 12, 16. And the
quantities a, a-\-b, e, e-\-b. But quantities form a fe-
ries in arithmetical proportion, when they “ increafe or
“ decreafe by the fame conftant difference.” As thefe,
a, «+A, fl-HA, <*-|-3A, a+4A, x, x—A, x—2A, drr.
or the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, &c. and 10, 7, 4, 1, —2,
—5, —8, &c.
In four quantities arithmetically proportional, “ the
“ fum of the extremes is equal to the fum of the mean
“ terms,”
po
B
R
A.
“ The fum of a feries of geometrical proportionals
: wanting the firft term, is equal to the fum of all
: but the laft term multiplied by the common ratio.”
For ar » Sec.
—rXa+ar+ar1, &c. + ^-+ ^7 + +^--
Therefore if s be the fum of the feries, s — a will be e-
qual to V~—y Xr; that is, /—a=-fr—yr, or sr — s =
yr—a, and s —
Since the exponent of r is always increafing from the
fecond term, if the number of terms be n, in the lafl:
term its exponent will be n—1. Therefore ;
^■■=zarn \ and/ = ^^—-) — a——-. So
znd j!r=arn~
that having the firft term of the feries, the number of
the terms, and the common ratio, you may 'eafily find
the fum of all the terms.
If it is a decreafing feries whofe fum is to be found,
asof^+A- + ^- + ^7> See. + arJ 4-ar*+
and the number of the terms be fuppofed infinite, then
lhall a, the laft term, be equal to nothing. For, be-
caufe n, and confequently r”—1 is infinite, —o.
The fum of fuch a feries /=—--■ ■ ; which is a finite
r—1
fum, though the number of terms be infinite. Thus,
qual quantities you fubtracl the fame quantity, the re¬
mainders muft be equal.”
By this rule, when the known and unknown quantities
are mixed in an equation, you may feparate them by
bringing all the unknown to one fide, and the known to
the other fide of the equation ; as in the following exam¬
ples.
Suppofe 5x-+jo=:4x+56
by Tranfpofit. jx—4x^:56—50, or, x—6
And if 2x+a -x~\-b
Rule II. Any quantity by which the unknown
quantity is multiplied may be taken away, if you di¬
vide all the other quantities on both fides of the equa¬
tion by it.
For that is to divide both fides of the equation by the
fame quantity, and when you divide equal quantities by
the fame quantity, the quotients muft be equal. Thus,
If ax=b
then x= — ;
and if 3x+i2=2 7
by Rule xft. 3*=27—12=15
and by Rule 2d.
Rule III. If the unknown quantity is divided by any
quantity, that quantity may be taken away if you mul¬
tiply all the other members of the equation by it.
Thus,
and I+T‘^"T‘^‘rT“l*TrV *K &C. — -—-I
Chap. IX. O/" Equations that
only one unknown Quantity.
An equation is “ a propofition afierting the equality
“ of two quantities.” It is exprefled moft common¬
ly by fetting down the quantities, and placing the fign
(“) between them.
An equation gives the value of a quantity, when that
quantity is alone on one fide of the equation: and that
value is known, if all thofe that are on the other fide are
known. Thus ifl find that x — = 8, I havea known
3
value of x. Thefe are the laft conclufions we are to feek
in queftions to be refolved; and if there be only one
unknown quantity in a given equation, and only one di-
menfion of it, fuch a value may always be found by the
following rules.
Rule I. Any quantity may be tranfpofed from one
fide of the equation to the other, if you change its
fign.
For to take away a quantity from one fide, and to place
it with a contrary fign on the other fide, is to fubtradt it
from both fides; and it is certain, that “ when from e-
If-L=i+S
then fit all x^i+S^
By this rule, an equation whereof any part is a frac¬
tion may be reduced to an equation that lhall be expref-
involve Rd by integers. If there are more fractions than one in
the given equation, you may, by reducing, them to a
common denominator, and then multiplying all the other
terms by that denominator, abridge the calculation
thus ;
If JL+2
5 3
then 3i±lx =
and by this Rule 3x+5x=i5x—105
and by R. 1. and 2.
Rule IV. If that member of the equation that in¬
volves the unknown quantity be a fur it root, then the
equation is to be reduced to another that lhall be free
from any furd, by bringing that member firft to ftand
alone upon one fide of the equation, and then taking
away the radical fign from it, and railing the other
fide of the equation to the power denominated by the
furd.
Thus if \/ 4X+16—12
4x4-16=3144
and 4x=i44—16=128
and x=‘j8=32.
Rule
A L G E B R A. 91
Rule V. If that fide of the equation that contains the
unknown quantity be a compleat fquare, cube, or other
power; then extraft the fquare root, cube root, or the
root of that power, from both fides of the equation,
and thus the equation fhall be reduced to one of a
lower degree.
If x1+6x+9=20
then x+j——20
and x—=t:\/20—3.
Rule VI. A proportion may be converted into an
equation aflerting the product of the extreme terms
equal to the product of the mean terms ; or any one of
the extremes equal to the produft of the means divi¬
ded by the other extreme.
Tf X
Ir 12—x : — :: 4 s I
2
then 12—x=2.v .... 3a.—12 . . . and x=4.
Or if 20—x : x : : 7:3
then 60—ix—'jx .... iox=6o . . . and x—6.
Rule VII. If any quantity be found on both fides of
the equation with the fame fign prefixed, it may be ta¬
ken away from both: Alfo, if all the quantities in the
equation are multiplied or divided by the fame quan¬
tity, it may be llruck out of them all. Thus,
If 3x-H=<t+5 •. . 3*s=* . • • and x=
Rule VIII. Inftead of any quantity in an equation, you
may fublHtute another equal to it.
Thus if 3 x-{-y~2 4
and y—9
then 3x+9=24 ... x= 2-~~ —5•
The further improvements of this rule lhall be taught
in the following chapter.
Chap. X. Solution o/-Questions
that produce Simple Equations.
Simple equations are thofe “ wherein the unknown
quantity is only of one dimenfion.” In the folution of
which, we are to obferve the following diredions.
Direct. I. “ After forming a diftinft idea of the
“ queftion propofed, the unknown quantities are to be
" expreffed by letters, and the particulars to be tranfla-
“ ted from the Common language into the algebraic
“ manner of expreffing them, that is, into fuch equations
“ as lhall exprefs the relations or properties that are
“ given of fuch quantities.”
Thus, if the fum of two quantities mufl: be 60, that con¬
dition is exprefled thus, . . . x4-J=6o.
If their difference . muft be 24, that condition
gives . . . . . , x—24.
If their produdt mull be 1640, then . x>c=i640.
If their quotient mull be 6, then . . ——6.
y
If their proportion is as 3 to 2, then : 3:2 or
2x=3j; becaufe the produft of the extremes is equal
to the produd of the mean terms.
Direct. II. “ After an equation is formed, if yon
“ have one unknown quantity only, then, by the rules
“ of the preceding chapter, bring it to ftand alone on
“ one fide, fo as to have only known quantities on the
“ other fide thus you lhall difeover its value.
Examp. “ A perfon being afleed what wras his age,
“ anfwered that ^ of his age multiplied by t'-t of his age
“ gives a produdt equal to his age. £ht. What was
“ his age ?”
It appears from the queftion, that if you call his age
x, then lhall ... ~=x
4t 12
that is ... =x
48
and by Rule 3. ... 3x*=48x
and by R. 7. . . . 3X=48
whence by R. 2. . . . x=i6.
Direct. III. “ If there are two unknown quanti-
“ ties, then there muft be two equations arifing from the
“ conditions of the queftion : Suppofe the quantities x
“ andj>; find a value of x or j from each of the equa-
“ tions, and then, by putting thefe two values equal to
“ each other, there will arife a new equation involving
“ one unknown quantity ; which muft be reduced by the
“ rules of the former chapter.”
Ex amp. I. “ Let the, fum of two quantities be /,
“ and their difference a'. Let s and d be given, and let
“ it be required to find the quantities themfelves.”
Suppofe them to be x and/, then, by the fuppofition.
whence
and i/+/=u—y
2y—s—d
s—d
2
Examp. II. “ A privateer running at the rate, of 10
“miles an hour, difeovers a Ihip 18 miles off making
“ way at the rate of 8 miles an hour: It is demanded
“ how many miles the fhip can run before Ihe be over-
“ taken ?”
Let the number of miles the Ihip can run before Ihe be
overtaken be called x, and the number of miles the pri¬
vateer muft run before Ihe come up with the Ihip bey ;
then lhall (by fupp.) . . /=x+x8 . . . and x : 8 :10.
whence
A
L
G
E
92
whence iox=S>’ • . . y—..^V- . . and x=y—18. whence
y—18=^- and ^=90 . . x—y—18=72.
To find the time, fay, If 8 miles give 1 hour, 72 miles
will give 9 hours . . thus, 8 : 1 :: 72 : 9.
Examp. III. “ Suppofe the diftance between London
“ and Edinburgh to be 360 miles; and that a courier fets
“ out from Edinburgh, running at the rate of 10 miles
“ an hour; another fets out at the fame time from Lon-
“ don, and runs 8 miles an hour; It is required to know
“ where they will meet ?”
Suppofe the courier that fets out from Edinburgh runs
x miles, and the other y miles, before they meet, then
(hail,
by fuppof.
*=360—y
■^-=360—y
^+y=36o
9_y=i440
y=JL^=i6o
x=36o—^=200
Examp. IV. “ Two merchants were copartners;
“ the fum of their Hock was 3001. One of their flocks
“ continued in company 11 months, but the other drew
“ out his flock in 9 months; when they made up their
“ accounts they divided the gain equally, ^a. What
“ was each man’s flock?” Suppofe the flock of the
firfl to be x, and the flock of the other to be ,y; then,
by fuppof. £
iiH-9>=3300
20^=3300
y=2i%-o=i65...x=300—y=i35.
Direct. IV. “ When in one of the given equa-
“ tions the unknown quantity is of one dimenfion, and
“ in the other of a higher dimenfion; you mufl find a
“ value of the unknown quantity from that equation
“ where it is of one dimenfion, and then raife that va-
“ lue to the power of the unknown quantity in the other
“ equation; and by comparing it, fo involved, with the
“ value you deduce from that other equation, you fhall
“ obtain an equation that will have only one unknown
“ quantity, and its powers.”
That is, when you have two equations of different
dimenfions, if you cannot reduce the higher to the fame
dimenfion with the lower, you mufl raife the lower to
she fame dtmenfion with the higher.
B R A.
Examp. V. “ The fum of two quantities, and the
“ difference of their fquares, being given, to find the
“ quantities.” Suppofe them to be x and y, their fum
/, and the difference of their fquares </. Then,
x+y=s #J+y2=s2—2sy+y*
x1—yz=d d—s1—-2sy
   2sy—s1—d
x—s—y _£*—d
2/y+>’1 y~~17
x'—d+y1, whence * , s24-d
and x= —-—’
2f
Direct. V. “ If there are three unknown quanti-
“ ties, there mufl be three equations in order to deter-
“ mine them, by comparing which, you may, in all cafes,
“ find two equations involving only two unknown quan-
“ tities; and then, by D 'trctt. 3d, from thefe two you
“ may deduce an equation involving only one unknown
“ quantity; which may be refolved by the rules of the
“ lafl chapter.”
From three equations involving any three unknown
quantities, x, y, and z, to deduce two equations, invol¬
ving only two unknown quantities, the following rule
will always ferve.
Rule. “ Find three values of x from the three gi¬
ven equations; then, by comparing the firfl and fe-
cond value, you will find an equation involving only
y and z ; again, by comparing the firfl and third, you -
will find another equation involving only y and z;
and, laflly, thofe equations are to be refolved by
Dir. 3.
Examp. VI.
Suppofe
x+ y-\- z=i2'\ ri2— y— z
^+2^+3z=20^ then, > 20 —2_>'—3Z
Thefe two lafl equations involve only y and z, and
are to be refolved by Dirett. 3d, as follows.
2>'—J+3Z Z=20—12=8
. 7+2 z=8
36—3>'—6z=24—2y—2z
I2=H-4Z
whence y— ^ 8-2z .. ill value
(_ 12-—4Z . . 2d value
8 2Z—12 4Z
2Z—12 8=4
and z=2
j(=8—2z)=4
x (=12—y—z)=6.
This method is general, and will extend to all equa¬
tions that involve 3 unknown quantities: but there are
often
E
B
R
A.
93
A L G
often eafier and (hotter methods to deduce an equation
involving one unknown quantity only ; which will be beft
learned by pra&ice.
Examp. VII. rx+j—a
Supp. \x+z=zb
ty+z=c
x—a—y
a—y->rz~b
y+z=c
a-to-\-2Z—b-\-c
2Z—b+c—a
f  —a
<y{=^—z) =-
1x
a+b—c
It is obvious from the 3d and jth direftions, in what
manner you are to work if there are four, or more, un¬
known quantities, and four, or more, equations given.
By comparing the given equations, you may always at
length difcover an equation involving only one unknown
quantity; which, if it is a fimple equation, may always
be refolved by the rules of the laft chapter. We may
conclude then, that “ When there are as many fimple
equations given as quantities required, thefe quantities
may be difcovered by the application of the preceding
rules.”
If indeed there are more quantities required than e-
quations given, then the queftion is not limited to deter¬
minate quantities; but is capable of an infinite number
offolutions. And, if there are more equations given
than there are quantities required, it may be impoffible to
find the quantities that will anfwer the conditions of
the queftion ; becaufe fome of thefe conditions may be
inconfiftent with others.
Chap. XI. Containing fome general Theorems
for the exterminatingunknownQvwiTities
in given Equations.
In the following Theorems, we call thole coefScients
of the fame order that are prefixed to the fame unknown
quantities in the different equations. Thus in Theor.
2d, a, d, g, are of the fame order, being the coefficients
of x: ajfo b, e, b, are of the fame order, being the coef¬
ficients of y : and thofe are of the fame order that affedt
no unknown quantity.
But thbfe are called oppofite coefficients that are taken
each from a different equation, and from a different or¬
der of coefficients : As, a, e, and d, b, in the firft theo¬
rem ; and a, e, k, in the fecond; alfo, a, h, f; and d,
b, k, &c.
V
OL. I. No. 4.
3.
THEOREM I.
Suppofe that two equations are given, involving two
unknown quantities, as,
C ax+hyzzc
l dx+ey=f
af-—dc
then fhail y— ~—fu»
where the numerator is the difference of the products
of the oppofite coefficients in the orders in whichis not
found, and the denominator is the difference of the pro-
dudts of the oppofite coefficients taken from the orders
that involve the two unknown quantities.
For, from the firft equation, it is plain, that
c—by
ax—c—by , . and x=——
f-—ey
from the 2d, dx—f—ey . . and x——~
therefore ^ and cd—dbyz=usf—aey
a d
whence aey—dbyzzaf-—cd,
aP—cd
wir=aT=4i,-
after the fame manner, x=———
ae—db'
ElAMr-s“pp- {£+1=80
then y.
5x80—-3x100 _ 100 __ 5
THEOREM II.
Suppose now that there are three unknown quan-'
tities and three equations, then call tire unknown quanti¬
ties x, y, and z.
Thus,
C ax+by+czz=m
< dx+ey+fzz=n
(gx+by+U=p
Then (hall
aep—ahn-fdhm.—dhp-\-g b n—ge m
" atk-—ahffdhc—dbk-\-gbf—gec ’
where the numerator confifts of all the different pro-
dudls that can be made of three oppofite coefficients
taken from the orders in which z is not found, and the
denominator confifts of all the products that can be made
of the three oppofite coefficients taken from the orders
that involve the three unknown quantities.
G h a p. XII. Of Quadratic E qu a t 1 o n s.
In the folution of any queftion, where you have'got
an equation that involves one unknown quantity, but in-
f A a volves
94
ALGEBRA.
volves at the fame time the fquare of that quant it 3% and
the product of it multiplied by fome known quantity,
then you have what is called a Quadratic equation;
which may be refolved by the following
Rule.
1. “ Tranfport all the terms that involve the unknown
“ quantity to one fide, and the known terms to the 0-
“ ther fide of the equation.
2. “If the fquare of the unknown quantity is multi-
“ plied by any coefficient, you are to divide all the terms
“ by that coeffient, that the coefficient of the fquare of
“ the unknown quantity may be unit.
3. “ Add to both fides the fquare of half the coeffici-
“ ent prefixed to the unknown quantity itfelf, and the
“ fide of the equation that involves the unknown quan-
“ tity will then be a compleat fquare.
4. “ Extract the fquare root from both fides of the
“ equation; which you v/ill find, on one fide, always to
“ be the unknown quantity, with half the forefard coef-
“ ficient fubjoined to it; fo that, by tranfpofing this
“ half, you may obtain the value of the unknown quan-
“ tity exprefled in known terms.” Thus,
Suppofe
Add the fquare ofto? J+^+^ =H_^
both fides . . . j ^  4
Extradt the root,
2 4
Tranfpofe —,    
2 4 2
The fquare root of any quantity, as + aa, may be
4- a, or —a; and hence, “ All quadratic equations ad¬
mit of two folutions.” In the laft example, after finding
that >> 1+q)l+—=£4-—> it may be inferred that_y4- —
 4 4    2
=4-v^+ f_ or t0 —v f_ fince b-\-—x—
  4 4   4 
^ b-\r— gives b-\ , as well as -3^b-\-—x-{- ^b-\—•
^ ^ 4 4
There are therefore two values of y; the one gives y—
b-\— —, the other, »=:—^b-\-— —.
4 2 4 2
Since the fquares of all quantities are pofitive, it
is plain that “ the fquare root of a negative quantity is
imaginary, and cannot be affigned.” Therefore there are
fome quadratic equations that cannot have any folution.
For example, fuppofe
whence the two values of y muft be imaginary or impofli-
ble, becaufe the root of — ii-f— cannot poffibly be af¬
figned.
Suppofe that the quadratic equation propofed to be
refolved is y7—ay—b
then y7-
-ay+—=b+-
4  i
2  4
and y— If the fquare root of
, 2 4
b-\- — cannot be extradled exadly, you muft, in order
to determine the value of y, nearly approximate to the
value of 'v^4-—, by the rules in chap. 7. The fol-
4
lowing examples will illuftrate the rule for quadratic
equations.
Examp. I. “ To find that number which if you
“ multiply by the produdt ftiall be equal to the
“ fquare of the fame number having 12 added to it.”
Call the number j, then
y7 + \2=:%y
tranfp. y1—8>=—12
add the Sq. of —874-16=—124-
extradl the R. y—4=±=2
tranfp. 7=4=±:2=6 or 2.
Examp. II. “ 'To find a number fuch, that if you
“ Tubtradl it from 10, and multiply the remainder by
“ the number itfelf, the produdt ftiall give 21.”
Call it y. Then
10—7X7=21
that is, 107—77=21
tranfp. yx—107=—21
add the fq. of 5,7*—1074-25=—214-25=4
extraft, 7—5 =±=^4=—2
and 7=5=t=2=7 or 3.
Examp. III. “ A company dining together in an inn,
“ find their bill amounts to 175 /hillings; two of them
were not allowed to pay, and the reft found that their
“ ffiares amounted to 10 /. a man more than if all had
“ paid. Qu. How many were in company ?”
Suppofe -their number x; then if all had paid, each
man’s ffiare would have been ——: but now the /hare
y*—ay+3a'=o
then 72—ay——3* 2
add — to both, 72— 074-—=— 332 4-~=
1 la1
extradt the root,
of each perfon is , feeing x—2 is the number of
thofe that pay. It is therefore, by the queftion,
X 2 X
and 175*—i75x4-35o = iox2—sox
that is, iox2—20x=35o
and x2—2x=35
add 1 . ^ x2—2x-h 1=3 54-1=36
extr. yTTx—1—=ti6
x=I=t=6=7, or, —5.
and 7=
A L G E B R
95
It is obvious, that the pofitive value 7 gives the folu-
tion of the queflion; the negative value •—5 being, in
the prefen t cafe, ufelefs.
Any equation of this ioxm aym~b, where the
greatell index of the unknown quantity y is double to the
index ofy in the other term, may be reduced to a qua¬
dratic z*by putting = and confequently
ylm—zt. And this quadratic refolved as above gives
Examp. “ The product of two quantities is a, and
“ the fum of their fquares b. Shi. The quantities?”
\ xy —a .. ox x—— and x' =—
Supp. < y y
tx'+y'=b..x* = b—y'
whence b—y'—-ir
y
mult, by^1 .. by*—y^—a*
Put nowy*^:^ • • and confeq. . .y*—z*, and it is
z*—bz——az
add
z'—bz+—=- 
4 _
' ^ ' z 2 s/ 4
and z = — x±z /_ a* and, feeingjcr-y/z,
2 v 4 
Chap. XIII. Of Surds.
If a leffer quantity meafures a greater fo as to leave
no remainder, as 2 a meafnres 10a, being found in it five
times, it is faid to be an aliquot part of it, and the
greater is faid to be a multiple of the leffer. The lefler
quantity in this cafe is the greatejl common meafure of
the two quantities: for as it meafures the greateft, fo
it alfo meafures itfelf, and no quantity can meafure it
that is greater than itfelf.
When a third quantity meafures any two propofed
quantities, as 2a meafures and icw, it is faid to be a
common meafure of thefe quantities; and if no greater
quantity meafure them both, it is called their greatejl
common meafure.
Thole quantities are faid to be commenfurable which
have any common meafure; but if there can be no quan¬
tity found that meafures them both, they are faid to be
incomnunfurable; and if any one quantity be called ra¬
tional, all others that have any common meafure with
it, are alfo called rational: But thofe that have no com¬
mon meafure with it, are called irrational quantities.
If any two quantities a and b have any common mea¬
fure x, this quantity x (hall alfo raeafure their fum . or
difference az+zb. Let x be found in a as many times as
unit is found in m, fo that a — mx, and in b as many
times as unit is found in «, fo that b = nx\ then lhall
azfzb~mxz^znx—mz+znXx; fo that x fhall be found in
az+zb, as often as unit is found in mz+zn : now fince m
and n are integer numbers, mz+zn mull be an integer
number or unit, and therefore x mull meafure az$zb.
It is alfo evident, that if x meafure any number as a,
it mull meafure any multiple of that number/ If it be
found in a as many times as unit is found in m fo that
a=.mx, then it will be found in any multiple of a, as na,
as many times as unit is found in mn; for na—mnx.
If two quantities a and b are propofed, and b meafure
a by the units that are in m (that is, be found in a as
many times as unit is found in ni) and there be a remain¬
der c, and if x be fuppofed to be a common meafure of
a and b, it fhall be alfo a meafure of c. For by the fup-
pofition a~mb-\-c, lince it contains b as many times as
there are units in m, and there is c befides of remainder.
Therefore a—rnb—c. Now x is fuppofed to meafure a
and b, and therefore it meafures mb, and confequently
a—mb, which is equal to c
If c meafure b by the units in n, and there be a re¬
mainder d, fo that bzznc-\-d, and b—nc—d, then lhall
x alfo meafure d; becaufe it is fuppofed to meafure b,
and it has been proved that it meafures c, and confe¬
quently nc, and b — nc which is equal to d. Whence,
as, after fubtradting b as often as poffible from a, the re¬
mainder c is meafured by x; and, after fubtradting c as
often as poflible from b, the remainder d is alfo meafured
by x; fo, for the fame reafon, if you fubtradt d as of¬
ten as pofiible from c, the remainder (if there be any)
mull Hill be meafured by x: and if you proceed. Hill
fubtradting every remainder from the preceding remain¬
der, till you find fome remainder, which, lubtradled
from the preceding, leaves no further remainder, but
exadtly meafures it, this lall remainder will llill be mea¬
fured by x, any common meafure of a and b.
The lall of thefe remainders, viz. that which exadlly
meafures the preceding remainder, mull be a common
meafure of a and b : fuppofe that d was this lad remain¬
der, and that it meafured c by the units in r, then lhall
czzrd, and we lhall have thefe equations,
a zz mb + c
b~nc-Y d
czzrd.
Now it is plain that fince d meafures’c, it mull alfi>
meafure nc, and therefore mull meafure nc-\-d, or b.
And fince it meafures b and c, it mull meafure mb-\-c,
ox a \ fo that it mull be a common meafure oi a and b.
But further, it mull be their greatejl common meafure ;
for every common meafure of a and b mull meafure d,
by the lall article; and the greatell number that mea¬
fures d, is itfelf, which therefore is the greatell com¬
mon meafure of a and b.
But if, by continually fubtradling every remainder
from the preceding remainder, you can never find one that
meafures that which precedes it exadtly, no quantity can
be
A L G E B R A.
p6
be fouvi;! that will meafure both a and 6; and therefore
they viH be hicanmenfursble to each other.
For if there was any common meafure of thefe quan¬
tities, as .r, it would neceffarily meafure all the remain¬
ders c, d, &c. For it would meafure a—mb, or c, and
confequently b—nc, cr d, and fo on; now thefe remain¬
ders decrease in fuch a manner, that they will neceffarily
become at length lefs than x, or any aftlgnable quantity.
For c mud be lefs than becaufe c is lefs than b, and
therefore lefs than mb, and confequently lefs than 4-^4‘
—mb, or Y't- lo bite manner d muft be lefs than \b; for
d is lefs than c, and confequently lefs than IJAr^nc, or
\b. The third remainder, in the fame manner, mull be
lefs than ^c, which is itfeif lefs than \a: Thus thefe
remainders decreafe, fo that every one is lefs than the
half of that which preceded it next but one. Now if
from any quantity you take away more than its half,
and from the remainder more than its half, and proceed
in this manner, you will come at a remainder lefs than
any affignable quantity. It appears therefore, that if
the remainders c, d, &c. never end, they will become lefs
than any affignable quantity, as x, which therefore can¬
not poffibly meafure them, and therefore cannot be a
common meafure of a and b.
In the fame way the greated common meafure of two
numbers is difeovered. Unit is a common meafure of all
integer numbers, and two numbers are faid to be prime
to each other when they have no greater common mea¬
fure than unit; fuch as 9 and ay. Such always are
the lead numbers that can be affumed in any given pro¬
portion ; for if thefe had any common meafure, then the
quotients that would arife by dividing them by that
common meafure would be in the fame proportion, and,
being lefs than the numbers themfelves, thefe numbers
would not be the lead in the fame proportion; againd
the fuppofition.
The lead numbers in any proportion always meafure
any other numbers that are in the fame proportion.
Suppofe a and b to be the lead of all integer numbers in
the fame proportion, and that c and d are other num¬
bers in that proportion, then will a meafure c, and b
meafure d.
For if a and b are not aliquot parts of c and d, then
they mud contain the fame number of the fame kind of
parts of c and d; and therefore dividing a into parts of c,
snd b into an equal number of like parts of d, and call¬
ing one of the fird m, and one of the latter n; then as
ni is to n. To will the fum of all the m'% be to the fum
of all the n\ ; that is, mini'. d \ b, therefore a and b
will not be the lead in the fame proportion; againd
the fuppolition. Therefore a and b mud be aliquot parts
of c and d. Hence we fee that numbers which are prime
to each other are the lead in the fame proportion; for if
there were others in the fame proportion lefs than them,
thefe would meafure them by the fame number, which
therefore would be their common meafure againd the
fuppofition, for we fuppofed them to be prime to each
other.
If two numbers a and b are prime to one another, and
a third number c meafures one of them a, it will be
prime to the other b. For if c and b were not prime to
each other, they would have a common mcafure, which,
becaufe it would meafure c, would alfo merfure a, which
is meafured by c, therefore a and b would have a com¬
mon meafure, againd the fuppolition.
If two numbers a and b are prime to c, then dial! their
product ab be alfo prime to c: For if you fuppofe them
to have any common meafure as d, and fuppofe that d
meafures ab by the units in e, fo that de—ab, then fliall
d : a :: b e. But fince ^ meafures c, and c is fuppofed
to be prime to a, it follows that d and a are prime to
each other; and therefore d mud meafure b; and yet,
fince d is fuppofed to meafure c which is prime to b, it
follows that d is alfo prime to b; that is, d is prime to
a number which it meafures, which is abfurd.
It follows from the lad article, that if a and c are
prime to each other, then az will be prime to c : For
by fuppofing that a is equal to b, then ab will be equal to
a1; and confequently a2 will be prime to c. In the
fame manner cx will be prime to a.
If two numbers a and b are both prime to other two
c, d, then fhall the produft ab be prime to the produdt
cd; for ab will be prime to c and alfo to d, and there¬
fore, by the fame article, cd will be prime to ab.
From this it follows, that if a and c are prime to each
other, then fliall a2 be prime to c2, by fuppofing, in
the lad, that a=-b, and <•"</. It is alfo evident that a3
will be prime to c3, and in general any power of a to
any pov/er of c whatfoever.
Any two numbers, a and b, being given, to find the
lead numbers that are in the fame proportion with them,
divide them by their greateft common 7>teafure x, and the
quotients c and d Jhall be the leaji numbers in the fame
proportion with a and b.
For if there could be any other numbers in that pro¬
portion lefs than c and d, fuppofe them to be e and f,
and thefe being in the fame proportion as a and b would
meafure them: And the number by which they would
meafure them, would be greater than x, becaufe e and/"
are fuppofed lefs than c and d, fo that x would not be
the greated common meafure of a and b; againd the
fuppofition.
Let it be required to find the lead number that any
two given numbers, as a and b, can meafure. Fird, “ If
“ they are prime to each other, then their produdt ab is
“ the lead number which they can both meafure.”
For if they could meafure a lefs number than mb as c,
fuppofe that c is equal to ma, and to nb ; and fince c is
lefs than ab, therefore 7na will be lefs than ab, and m
lefs than b; and nb being lefs than ab, it follows that n
mud be lefs than a; but fince ma—nb, and confequently
a : b : 1 n : ni, and a and b are prime to each other, it
would follow that a would meafure n, and b meafure in,
that is, a greater number would meafure a lefs, which is
abfurd.
But if the numbers a and b are not prime to each o-
ther, and their greated common meafure is x, which
meafures a by the units in 771, and meafures b by the u-
nits in n, fo that a—mx, and b—nx, then fliall an (which
is equal to bm, becaufe a:b: -.tux \ nx : m : n, and there- '
fore an—bm) be the lead number that a and b can both
meafure. For if they could meafure any number c lefs
than
A
A.
L G E
than na, fo that c^la—kb, then a : b : : m : n : : k i 1}
and becaufe x is fuppofed to be the greateft common
meafuxe of a and b, it follows that m and n are the leall
of all numbers in the fame proportion, and therefore rn'
meafures k, and n metifures /. But as c is fuppofed to
be jcfs than na, that is, la lefs than na, therefore l is
lefs titan n, fo that a greater would meafure a lefier,
which is abfurd. Therefore a and b cannot meafure any
number lefs than an ; which they both meafure, becaufe
na—n:l.
It follows from this reafoning, that if a and b mea¬
fure any quantity c, the leaft quantity na, which is mea-
fured by a and b, will alfo. meafure <r. For if you fup-
pofe, as before, that c—la, you will find, that n mull
meafure /, and na muft meafure la or c.
Let a exprefs any integer number, and — any frac¬
tion reduced to its loweft terms, fo that m and n may be
prime to each other, and confequently an-\-m alfo prime
to n, it will follow that «>2-f-«2lwill be prime to and
confequantly will be a fraftion in its leaft terms,
and can never be equal to an integer number. There¬
fore the fquare of the mixt number is ftill a mixt
number, and never an integer. In the fame manner, the
cube, biquadrate, or any power of a mixt numbe.r, is
ftill a mixt number, and never an integer. It follows
from this, that the fquare root of an integer mujl be an
integer or an incotnmenfirabie. Suppofe that the inte¬
ger propofed is B, and that the fquare root of it is lefs
than tf-j-i, but greater than a, then it muft be an in-
commenfurable; for if it is a commenfurable, let it be
where — reprefents any fraction reduced to its
leaft terms ; it would follow, that fquared would
give an integer number B, the contrary of which we
have demonftrated.
It follows from the laft article, that the fquare roots
of all numbers but of i, 4, 9, 16, 25, 36, 49, 64, 81,
foo, 121, 144, &c. (which are the fquares of the inte¬
ger numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, ro, 11, 12, &c.)
are inconmenfurables: after the fame manner, the cube
roots of all numbers but of the cubes of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6< 7, 8, 9, See. are incomtnenfurables; and quantities
that are to one another in the proportion of fuch num¬
bers muft alfo have their fquare roots or cube roots in-
commenfurable.
The roots of fuch numbers being incommenfurable are
expreffed therefore by placing the proper radical fign o-
ver them; thus, 2, \/ 3, 5, </ 6, y' 7> 8,
a/ 10, &c. exprefs numbers ineommenfurabie with unit.
Thefe numbers, though they are incommenfurable them-
felves with unit, are commenfurable in power with it,
becaufe their powers are integers,- that is, multiples
of unit. They may alfo be commenfurable fometimes
with one another, as the 4/ 8, and the 4/ 2, becaufe
they are to one another as 2 to x : 'And when they have
Vop. I. No. 5. 3
R
n
a commdn meafure, as 4/ 2 is the common meafure of
both, then their ratio is reduced to an expreffion in the
leaft terms, as that of commenfurable quantities, by di¬
viding them by their greateft common meafure. This
common meafure is found as in commenfurable quanti¬
ties, only the root of the common meafure is to be made
and
their common divifor. Thus, —"SA ~
4/18^ ,
4/2 ~l^a'
A rational quantity may be reduced to the form cf
any given furd, by raifing the quantity to the power that
is denominated by the name of the furd, and then fet-
» } 4
ting the radical fign over it thus, a’’’ —4/a5 =4/#'?
5 n 3 4?
and 4=4/16=4/64=4/ 256=4/ 1024 —
4/4”.
As furds may be confidered as powers with fradtional
exponents, “ they are reduced to others of the fame va-
“ lue,that {hall have the fame radical fign, by reducing
“ thefe fractional exponents to fractions having the fame
“ value and a common denominator.” Thus, s/a'zza’1
V/‘1—i,,”> an(l ff— ~~fH, ~= —> and therefore a and
a/a, reduced, to the fame radical fign, become 4/^S
and If you are to reduce 4/3 and if 2 ta
the fame denominator, confider, 4/3 as equal to fx, the
4/2 as equal to 2T, whofe indices reduced to a common
denominator, you have 3^ =3^ and 2T —2s, and con-
fequently'4/3=4/33=4/2 7, and 4/2 =4/2* =4/4 ; fo
that the propofed furds 4/3 and 4/2 are reduced to other
equal furds 4/27 and 4/4, having a common radical
fign.
Surds of the fatne rational quantity are multiplied by
adding their exponents, and divided by fubtratting them ^
* 3 1 1 3+2 ,
thus a y.\/a—ali yf ~a 6 x=.as-=z\/a5 •, and
V^_^_ «_x
\/ a a*
m » mArn n—m * 3 6
a/a'X.f a—a~-~ ; n ; 4/2Y.i//2—</2':=
Va
6 4/2 6
4/32; I— =4/2.
4/2
If the fards are of different rational quantities, as
4/tf * and 4/63, and have the fame fign, “ multiply
“ thefe rational quantities into one another, or divide.
f B b “ them’
—a15 —fa'1
98
G
E
B
R
c over their prodntt o
*/ (1*1
quotient.'
Va
Thus, yV* Xv7^5 “
them by one another, andfet the common radical Ggn dudls. But when any compound furd is propofed, there
it another compound furd which multiplied into it gives
a rational produtt. Thus, s/ b multiplied by if a
—'/h gives a—b, and “ the inveftfgation of that furd
“ which multiplied into the propofed furd will give a
“ rational produft,” is made eafy by the following the¬
orems.
-v/^x-Zs^w; m - /«' =
jWa « b'a V
If the furds have not the fame radical fign, “ reduce
them to fuch as lhail have the fame radical fign, and
1 proceed as before,” */aY.ifb
z.-
z-
• Z 2 XZ4 =2^xZ=2^xZ -Za 3x4*=
6 6   
Z8Xi6=Zi28. If the furds have any rational coeffi¬
cients, their product or quotient muft be prefixed; thus,
2Z?x5Z6 =ioZi8.
The powers of furds are found as the powers of other
quantities, “ by multiplying their exponents by the in-
“ dex of the power required;” thus the fquare of y'2 is
=2t=Z4; the cube of Z5 =5T=ZI 2J-
Or you need only, in involving furds, “ raife the quan-
“ tity under the radical fign to the power required, con-
“ tinuing the fame radical fign ; unlefs the index of that
“ power is equal to the name of the furd, or a multiple
“ of it, and in that cafe the power of the furd becomes
“ rational.” Evolution is performed “ by dividing the
“ fradtion which is the exponent of the furd by the
“ name of the root required.” Thus the fquare root
3   .3   6  
of Za4 is Ztf* or Za4.
The furd-v/a™* — > an<f 30 fi^e manner, if a
power of any quantity of the fame name with the furd
divides the' quantity under the radical fign without a re¬
mainder, as here a™ divides amx, and 25 the fquare of
5 divides 75 the quantity under the fign in Z?5 without
a remainder, then place the root of that power rationally
before the fign, and the quotient under the fign, and thus
the furd will be reduced to a more Ample exprellion.
Thus, Z75:=5Z3; Z48=Z3Xi6~4Z3 > Z8i=:
Z 27X3=3^/ 3.
When furds by the lafi: article are reduced to their
lead: expreffions, if they have the fame irrational part,
they are added or fubtra&ed, “ by adding or fubtradHng
“ their rational coefficients, and prefixing the fum or
“ difference to the common irrational part.” Thus,
Z7J+Z48=5Z3+4Z3-9Z3 i Z8i+Z24=3Z3
3 3
+j2Z3=sZ3-
Compound furds are fuch as confilt of two or more
joined together. The fimple furds are commenfurable
in power, and by being multiplied into themfelves give
at length rational quantities; yet compound furds multi¬
plied into themfelves commonly give Itill irrational pro-
THEOREM I.
Generally, if you multiply am — bm by
an—xmfyn ancontinu¬
ed till the terms be in number equal to the pro¬
duct ffiall be an —; for
an—m-\-an—See.. . bn~m
Xa>n—hm
an+an-rmb”i+an—*‘>‘b*m+an—*”•**&, &c.
—a"—mbm—an—*mbxm—an—imb^>nt Sec.—bn
THEOREM II.
an—m—an—1r»bm-\-an—3Jm,—an—See. mul¬
tiplied by arn-\-bm gives a“z+zbni which is demonllrated
as the other. Here the fign of b» is pofitive, when —
is an odd number.
When any binomial furd is propofed, “ fuppofe the
“ index of each number equal to m, and let n be the
“ leaft integer number that is meafured by w, then lhail
“ a'—ms+rjjn-—1 mbm-^an—^mb1 >n} Sec. give a compound
“ furd, which multiplied into the propofed furd am^fzbm
“ will give a rational product.” Thus to find the furd
which multiplied by \/a—^/b, will give a rational quan¬
tity. Here and the leaft number which is mea¬
fured by y is unit; let »=i , then ftisdl
b"t-\-an—'in,bt™) &c. —a1 T^T+«°
bT+Z'T=v/ar+Z^_t'Zi% which multiplied by »/a—
3
<fb gives a-—b.
To find the furd which multiplied by *f aT> -f-Z^3 —
ay-\-by, gives a rational product. Here and ,
and an—m—an—*™bm-\-an—imb*m) Sec. —a^ T-—^
bl+a^bi—aZ-SbZzzaZ—a'bl+aibl—b^ife—
THEOREM III.
Let amc±zbl be multiplied by an—m—^an—‘lml1l-!ran— 3 nt
n
-l
b't^zan~Ambil, and the product lhall give an^czhm .
‘f therefore n muft be taken the leaft integer that ffiall
“ give — alfo an integer.
Dem.
Dem. af
A L G
n—mz£ian—1 5 mb * lz+zan—*mi>51 ....
Xamdtzbl .... &c.
/->>■'—j—/7^—— ^tllh I/) &C.
-j-gti—mhl. & r±zbm
an * * * zi=im
nl n
The fign of is pofitive only when m is an odd num¬
ber, and the binomial propofed is am+bK
If any binomial furd is propofed whofe two numbers
have different indices, let thefe be m and /, and take n
equal to the leaft integer number that is meafure4 by m
and by ; and an~~mz^ian~-'tmbl-\-a>i—'imb'~h^:a>l~im
b &c. (hall give a compound furd, which multi¬
plied by the propofed a^ztzbl fliall give a rational
produft. Thus \/ a — a/ b being given, fuppofe
/=y, and =1, therefore you have «=3, and
an—m-\.2n—zmbl-\-an—'n!b‘llJt-a”—A',r,bll-1r8cc. —cr1 T-j-
a^'b^+at-h^+al ~ 'b+a^bl+a0b^=a^+alb\
~\-a\;b^-\-ab-\-a^:b^-\-b^—*y a> ~Ta 1X'v/^"hv/a b2, "h
ab-\~^/aXy'^47l*V,bs ^a^x/a~{ a2 y.\^b aX\/b2 4"
ab-\-b\/aX>s/b-\-bXi>/T%, which multiplied by the y'*—
j «i
x/b gives aP—bm =:=*23—b2.
By thefe theorems any binomial furd whatfoever be-
ing given, you may find a furd which multiplied by it
lhall give a rational product.
Suppofe that a binomial furd was to be divided by an¬
other, as v'ao-f-v'is, by y'j —^3, the quotient may
b B R A. 99
arifing ’will be that of the propofed quantity divided by
the binomial furd, exprejfed in its leaf terms. Thus,
77^- = ^^ = *^;
x/6    »f 42 + \/i8
V 7 — V' 3~ 4
When the fquare root of a furd is required, it may
be found nearly by extrading the root of a rational quan¬
tity that approximates to its value. Thus to find the
fquare root of 3~|-2V'2, we firft calculate y'a^i, 41421;
and therefore 3+24/2=5, 82842, whofe root is found
to be nearly 2, 41421 : So that 4/3 + 2 4/2 is nearly
2,41421. But fometimes we maybe able to exprefs
the roots of furds exa&ly by other furds ; as in this ex-
ample the fquare root of 3+24/2 isT+4/2^ forT+Vlx
1 + 4/2=1+24/ 2+2=3+2 4/ 2.
Tn order to know when and how this may be found,
let us fuppofe that x-\-y is a binomial furd, whofe fquare
will be x*+>’*+2xy -• If x andy are quadratic furds then
x3+>'2 will be rational, and 2xy irrational; fo that 2xy
ftiall always be lefs than x2-\-yz, becaufe the difference
is x2+j2—2xy—x—y which is always pofitive. Sup¬
pofe that a propofed furd confiding of a rational part A,
and an irrational part B, coincides with this, then x2+
^2=A and xy B : Therefore by what was faid of o
quations. Chap. 12th,
v2=A—x2=—and therefore,
4x2
Ax2—x< = ?*
from whence we have x
A—4/A2—B
and x4—Ax’i+
A+4/A7=Br
be expreffed by
4/20 + 4/12
But it may be ex-
V 5—V 3
preffed in a more Ample form by multiplying both nume¬
rator and denominator by that furd •which, multiplied
into the denominator, gives a rational produd: Thus
4/20+4/ 12 _ 4/20 + 4/12 4/ 5 + 4/3 _
^5—4/3 v/5—\/3 V 5 +4/3
4/100 + 2 4/60 +6 _ 16 T2 4/60
5“
-=8+24/15*
In general, when any quantity is divided by a bino¬
mial furd, as amz±=b’, where m and / reprefent any
fractions whatfoever, take n the leaf integer number
Therefore when a quantity partly
rational, partly irrational, is propofed to have its root
extracted, call the rational part A, the irrational B,
and the fquare of the great ef member of the root Jhallbe
 an(* tlle ftuare °f tfie ^eJJer Part
be  — • And as often as the fquare root of
A2—B2 can be extracted, the fquare root of the pro¬
pofed binomial furd may be expreffed itfelf as a bi¬
nomial furd. For example, if 3 + 24/2 is propo¬
fed, then A=3, 6 = 24/2 and A2 —B2=9 —8=1.
Therefore x* = ~~ B ^ _ 2, and j 2 =1
2 J
= 1. Therefore x+7=i +4/2.
that is me a fared by m and
and denominator by a11 — m-j-a” “"’^b1+an — 3mb2', &c.
and the denominator of the produd will become rational,
ni
and equal to an —- b ; then divide all the members of
the numerator by this rational quantity, and the quote
ultiply both numerator To find the fquare root of—1+4/—8, fuppofe A =
—1, B=a/—8, fo that A2—B*=9 and ^K/AT—
--*+3
— = j, and
therefore the root required is 1+4/—2.
But
BRA.
But though X and are not quadratic fards or ropts
of integers, if they are the roots of like furds, as if. they,
are equal to \/mv z and where m and « are
integers, then h^rn-rn'A*/ z and -f o — K/ m n z ;
■j , _ A + — *** --.
A*—B*=w-
- a= m\fz, =
A—V’A1—
and >:-H ■/. a^/ha^/z. The part A here
eaiily diftir/guHhes itfelf from B by its being greater.
If x and jy are equal to and thenx*-}-
2 = wv'z+»a//+2 V -/r:t. So that if z or /
be not multiples, one of the other, or of fome number
that meafares them both by a fquare number, then v/iil
A itfelf be a binomial.
Let X"\-y~\~z exprefs any trinomial furd, its fquare xJ-{~
y?-{~2*+2xy+2xz4'2^z may be fuppofed equal to A+B
as before. But rather multiply any two radicals as 2xy
by 2xz, and divide by the third ayz which gives the
quotient 2*z rational, and double the fquare of the furd
x required. The fame rule ferves when there are four
quantities -\-z1 -f-i1 +2xy-\-2xs-\-2xz-{-2yz-j-2yfi‘
:'zr, multiply sxr by zxs, and the produdt divided
by 2sy gives 2x° a rational quotient, half the fquare of
2X. In like manner 2xyX2yz~^yzxz1 which divided by
2xz another member gives 2y*, a rational quote, the
half of the fquare of 2y. In the fame manner z and s
may be found; and their fum x+y+Z+^> the fquare
root of the feptinomial xa+d2+2S~t'J'2,4*25y'+2.vr-}-2xz+
2yz-\-2ys, difeovered.
For example, to find the fquare root of 10+V/24+
4/40+^60; I try which I find to be
^/i6=4, the half of the fquare root of the double of
which, viz. 4:Xv'3=V2, is one member of the fquare
root required; next = the half of the
fquare root of the double of which is 4/3 another mem¬
ber of the root required; laltly, =10, which
gives f°r the third member of the root required :
from which we conclude, that the fquare root of 10+
■*/24+4/40-\-6o is v/2+v/3'fV,5 ; and trying, you
find it fucceeds, fince multiplied by itfelf it gives the pro-
pofed quadrinomial. ,
For extra&ing the higher roots of a binomial, whofe
two members being fquared are commenfurable numbers,
there is the following
Rule. “ Let the quantity be A=±:B, whereof A is
“ the greater part, and c the exponent of the root
“ required. Seek the leaft number n whofe power
“ nc is divifible by AA—BB, the quotient being
“ Compute ■y/ A-fBXV'Q^m the nearefl: integer
“ number, which fuppofe to be r. Divide A^/Q^by
•“ its greateft rational divifor, and let the quotient be s,
and let r ~h ~J~ in the neareft integer number, be
“ t, fo lhall the root required be — —- , if
H v'Ql
f< the c root of A=tB can be extraAed.
Examp. I. Thus to find the cube root of v/968
-f-25, we have A*—B*=343-, whofe divifors are 7, 7, 7,
whence «=7, and Q=i. Further, that
is, v/968+25 is a little mpre than 56, whofe nearelt
cube root is 4. Wherefore r—4. Again, dividing ^968
by its greateft rational divifor, we have A\/ Qz=22\/2,
and the radical part and r ~b T~% 0r ~2^~ > in
the neareft integers, is 2 =/. And iaftly, ts~2\/2>
*/f11'1'—n—\, and v/Qj= v/ 1 =1. Whence 2-v/2+t
is the root, whofe cube, upon trial, I find to be ^968
+ 25.
Examp. II. To find the cube root of 68—v'4374,'
we have A*'—Bz=250, whofe divifors are 5, 5, 5, 2.
Thence «=jX2=xo, and Qt=4, and V'A+BXV'^. 0*
V'68+^4774X2 is nearly 7=7-; again Ay/Q^ c
y/4=X36X-v/i, that is, .
r 68X
and r±~T, or -7-t-T
   2
is nearly =4=/. Therefore //=4, —n—^/S,
*c  6 }
and y^Q^v^4—-y^2, whence the root to be tried i»
4 — y/6
V*
Chap. XIV. Of the Genesis ««£/Resolu-
t 1 o ft. of Equat i ONS in general; and the
number of Roots an Equation of any Degree
may have.
After the fame manner, as the higher powers are
produced by the multiplication of the lower powers of
the fame root, equations of fuperior orders are genera¬
ted by the multiplication of equations of inferior orders
involving the fame unknown quantity. And “ an equa-
“ tion of any dimenfion may be confidered as produced
“ by the multiplication of as many Ample equations as
“ it has dimenfions, or of any other equations v/hat-
“ foever, if the fum of their dimenfions is equal to the
“ dimenfion of that equation.” Thus, any cubic equa¬
tion may be conceived as generated by the multiplication
of three fimple equations, or of one quadratic and one
fimple equation. A biquadratic is generated by the
multiplication of four firii[>le equations, or of t<wo qua¬
dratic equations, or, iaftly, of one cubic and one fimple
equation.
If the equations which you fuppofe multiplied by one
another are the fame, then the equation generated will
be nothing elfe but fome power of thofe equations, and
the operation is merely involution; of which we have
treated already : • and, when any fuch equation is given,
the fimple equation by whofe multiplication it is produ¬
ced is found by evolution, or the extraction of a root. .
But when the equations that are fuppofed to be muU
A L G I
tlplied by each other are different, then other equations
than powers are generated; which to tefolve into the
fimple equations whence they are generated is a diffe¬
rent operation from involution, and is what is called,
the refolution off equations.
But as evolution is performed by obferving and tracing
back the fteps of involution; fo to difcover the rules for
the refolution of equations, we muft carefully obferve
their generation."
Suppofe the unknown quantity to be nr' and its values
in any fimple equations to be a, b, c, d, See. then thofe
fimple equations, by bringing all the terms to one fide,
become x—a-o, x—fc=o, x—r=o, _&c1 And, the
product of any two of thefe, as x—axx—fc=o will give
a quadratic equation, or an equation of two dimen-
f10ns- The product of any three of them, as x — a X
x ^ * x — c — o, will give a cubic equation, or one of
three dimenfions. The product of any four of them will
giveji biquadratic equation, or one of four dimenfions, as
x—axx bxx — exx—d=o. And, in general,
in the equation produced, the higheft dimenfion of
“ the unknown quantity will be equal to the number
“ of fimple equations that are multiplied by each o-
“ ther.”
 When any equation, equivalent to this biquadratic
* tfXx — b X x—cX x—d~o, is propofed to be re-
folved, the whole difficulty conftds in finding the fimple
equations x—a — o, x — b=o, x—c = o, -q,
by whofe multiplication it is produced; for each of thefe
fimple equations gives one of the values of x, and one fo-
lution of the propofed equation. For, if any of the va¬
lues of x, deduced from thofe fimple equations, be fub-
liituted in the propofed equation in place of x, then
all the terms of that equation will vanilh, and the whole
be found equal to nothing. Becaufe, when it is fuppo-
leddiat xzz.i, or x—b, or x—c, or x—J, then the produa:
x aXx — bXx—cXx — d does vanilh, becaufe one
of the fadlors is equal to nothing. There are therefore
four fuppofitions that give x — aXx^-iX x—cXx d
— o according to the propofed equation; that is, there
are four roots of the propofed equation. And after the
fame manner, “ any other equation admits of as many
“ folutions as there are limpfe equations multiplied by
“ one another that produce it, or, as many as there are
units in the higheft dimenfion of the unknown quanti-
“ ty in the propofed equation.”
But as there are no other quantities whatfoever be-
fides tliefe four b, c, d,) that fubftituted in the pro-
t!ul^x~‘7Xx-—hXx — cXx — in the place of x,
will make the product vamfh; therefore the equation
x aXx bXx — cXx — d=o, cannot poffibly have
more than thefe four roots, and cannot admit of more
folutions than four. If you fubftitute in that product a
quantity neither equal to *, nor b, nor c, nor d, which
fuppofe f, then fince neither e—a, e—b, e—c, nor
is equal to nothing; their produdf e ~a X e — i X
e—cXe — d cannot be equal to nothing, but mult be
fome real produA: and therefore there is no fuppo-
btion befide one of tlie forefaid four that gives a iuft'
Von. I No. 5. 6
B R A. i o i
value of x according to the propofed equation. So
that it can have no more than thefe four roots. And af¬
ter the fame manner it appears, that “ no equation can
“ have more roots than it contains dimenfions of the un-
“ known quantity.”
To make all this ftill plainer by an example, in numbers;
fuppofe the equation to be refolved, to be x4 — iox3
SS*2 — 50x-j-24 = o, and that you difcover that this e-
qu ition is the lame wdth the product- of x— i X x—jX
x 3Xx — 4» then you certainly infer that the four
values of x are i, 2, 3, 4 ; feeing any of 'thefe numbers
placed for x makes that produft, and cbnfequently x4—
lox^+qjx*—50x4-24, equal to nothing, according to
the propofed equation. And it is certain that there can
be no other values of x befides thefe four: fince when
you fubftitute any other number for x in thofe faftors
* r» x 2, x—3, x—4, none of the faftors vanilh ;
and therefore their produA cannot be equal to nothing,
according to the equation.
It may be ufeful fometimes to confider equations as
generated from others of an inferior fort befides fimple
ones. Thus a cubic equation may be conceived as ge¬
nerated from the qua dr tic x1—pxffq~o, and the fftm-
ple equation x—-7=0, multiplied by each other ; whofe
produift
Xs  px'+qx a(.^
 ax1- +apx j =0 may exprefs any cubic e-
quation whofe roots are the quantity (*) the value of x
in the fimple equation, and the two roots of the qua¬
dratic equation, viz. /+V//’2 4? anci P—‘ffp2—4?
2 2 5
as appears from Chap, 12. And, according as thefe
roots are re l or impoffble, two of the roots of the cubic
equation are real or impoffible.
In the dodhine of involution, we fiiev'ed, that “ the
“ fquare of any quantity, pofitive or negative, is always
pofitiveand therefore “ the fquare root of a nega-
“ 13 impoffible or imaginary/^ F01' example, the
V^2 *s either -f-<7, or—a ; .but ^ lcan neither be -ffa
nor —a, but muft be imaginary. Hence is underftood,
that “ a quadratic equation may have no impoffible
expreffion in its coefficients ; and yet, when it is re-
“ halved into the fimple equations that produce it, they
“ may involve impoffible expreffions.” Thus, the qua¬
dratic equation x^^o has no impoffible coefficient;
but the fimple equations from vffiich it is produced^
viz. x+y—^l=o, and x— both involve
an imaginary quantity ; as the fqnare —a2 is a red
quantity, but its fquare root is imaginary. After the
fame manner, a biquadratic equation, when refolved,
may give four fimple equations, each of which may give
an impoffible value for the root: and the fame may be
faid of any equation that can be produced from quadratic
equatiops only, that is, wiiofe dimenfions are of the even
numbers.
But, “ a cubic equation (which cannot be generated
from quadratic equations only, but requires one fim-
“ pie equation befides to produce it) if none of its coef-
“ ficients are impoffible, will have, at Jeaft, one real
w root, the fame with the root of the firaple equation'
t Co whence
102
B
R
A.
A L G
■whence it is produced. The fquare of an impofKble
quantity may he real, as the fquare of —a1 is —a *;
but “ the cube of an impodible quantity is ftill impolli-
“ b'e,” as it ftill involves the fquare root of a negative:
as,yW* X X-s/—? is
plainly imaginary. From which it appears, that though
two limple equations involving impoffible expreftions,
multiplied by one another, may give a product where no
impoflible expreilion may appear; yet “ if three fuch
“ ftmple equations be multiplied by each other, the im-
“ poflible expreihon will not difappear in their produft.”
And hence it is plain, that though a quadratic equation
whofe coefficients are all real may have its two roots im¬
poffible, yet “ a cubic equation whofe coefficients are
*■ real cannot have all its three roots impoffible.”
In general, it appears, that the impoffible expreffions
cannot difappear in the equation produced, but when
their number is even; that there are never in any equa¬
tions, whofe coefficients are real quantities, fingle impof¬
fible roots, or an odd number of impoffible roots, but
“ that the roots become impoffible in pairs, and that
(* an equation of an odd number of dimenfions has al-
“ ways one real root.”
“ The roots of equations are either pojitive or negative,
“ according as the roots of the limpie equations whence
“ they are produced are pofitive or negative ” If you
fuppofe Sf~'—a, x——b, x——c, x——d, &c then ffiall
x-f-*—o, x-H=o, x-\-c=o, x-^d—o ; and the equation
x + aXx b'X.x cX.x d=-o will have its roots,
—a, —b, —c, —d, &c. negative.
But to know when the roots of equations are pofitive,
and when negative, and how many there are of each
kind, fhull be explained in the next chapter.
Chap. XV. Of the Signs and Coeffi¬
cients of Equal.ons.
"When any number of fimple equations are multiplied
by each other, it is obvious that the higheft dimenfion of
the unknown quantity in their product is equal to the
number of thofe fimple equations ; and the term involving,
the higheft dimenfion is called the firjl term of the equa¬
tion generated by this multiplication. The term invol¬
ving the next dimenfion of the unknown quantity, lefs
than the greateft by unit, is called the fecond term of
the equation; the term involving the next dimenfion of
the unknown quantity, which is lefs than the greateft by
two, the third, term of the equation, &c. ; and that
term which involves no dimenfion of the unknown quan¬
tity, but is fome known quantity, is called the lajl term
of the equation.
“ The number of terms is always greater than the
“ higheft dimenfion of the unknown quantity by unit.”
And when any term is wanting, an afterifk is marked in
its place, The figns and coefficients of equations will be
underftood by confidering the following table, where the
fimple equations x—v, x—b, &c. are multiplied by one
another, and produce fucceffively the higher equations.
—a~o
—b—O
Xm}=0’ a luadratk-
—x3—a~) -j-ab
—b> Xxl-h»c>- X.v—abc—o, a cubic.,
—ej -\-bcj
—d—o
-\-ab 'I —abc'\
 ‘ Xx-\-abcd~o, a liqua¬
te (™-bcdS C‘W'
+bd J
+cd)
e5—rf")
-'j
-\-ab
~\-ac
Xx*+ad
+ae
+bc
+bd/
+be
+cd
+ce
+dej
-■•be
—abd
—abe
—acd
x~:>de\
—ace
■—bed1
—bee
—bde
—edei
See.
-\-abcd ^
+abce/
-\-abde> xx—alcdc-C,
-\-acde'\.
t-xlcde^
(2. furfolid.)
From the infpe<5tion of thefe equations it is plain, that
the coefficient of the firft term is unit.
The coefficient of the fecond term is the fum of all
the roots (a, b, c, d, e,) having their Jigns changed.
The coefficient of the third term is the fum of all the
products that can be made by niultipying any tnvo of the
roots (a, b, c, d, e,) by one another.
The coefficient of the fourth term is the fum of all the
products that can be made by multiplying into one an¬
other any three of the roots, with their Jigns changed.
And after the fame manner all the other coefficients are
formed.
The laft term is always the produtt of all the roots ha¬
ving their figns changed, multiplied by one another.
Although in the table fuch fimple equations only are
multiplied by one another as have pofitive roots, it is
eafy to fee, that “ the coefficients will be formed ac-
“ cording to the fame rule when any of the fimple equa-
“ tions have negative roots.” And, in general, if x3—
px^+qx—r=o reprefent any cubic equation, then lhall p
be the fum of the roots ; q the fum of the produ&s made
by multiplying any two of them; r the product of all
the three : and, if—p, -fy, —r, -\~s, —t, +«, &c. be
the coefficients of the 2d, qd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th,
terms of any equation, then ffiall p be the fum of all the
roots, q the fum of the produ&s of any two, r the fum ■
of the products of any three, s the fum of the produfts
of any four, / the fum of the products of any five, a the
fum of the products of any fix, ijc.
Whea
A L G
When therefore any equation is propofed to be refol-
ved, it is eafy to find the fum of the roots, (for it is e-
qual to the coefficient pf the fecond term having its fign
changed); or to find the fum of the products that can
be made by multiplying any determinate number of
them.
But it is alfo eafy “ to find the fum of the fquares, or
“ of any powers, of the roots.
The fum of the fquares is always p*—2y. For call¬
ing the fum of the fquares B, fince the fum of the roots
is />; and “ the fquare of the fum of any quantities is
“ always equal to the fum of their fqirares added to
“ double the produdts that can.be made by multiplying
“ any two of them,” therefore p'—B+ig, and confe-
quently — 2y. For example, a-\rb-\-c\1—aZJrb',-^\r
cl-)r2ab-3r2ac-\-2bc; p1=.B-\r2q. An&u-\-b-\-c-{-dV
—a'1 -^b1 -\-cz-Yd1 ■\-2Y.ab-\-ac-\-aci-\-bc-)rbd-\-cd, that is, a-
gain, p'l=B-\-2q, or B—p71—2q. And fo for any other
number of quantities. In general therefore, “ B the
“ fum of the fquares of the roots may always be found
“ by fubtradting 2y from p1 the quantities p and q
being always known, fince they are the coefficients in the
propofed equation.
“ The fum of the cubes of the roots of any equation
is equal to y>3—S/y+S'S or to' Bp—-/’y+gr.” For
B—qY.p gives always the excefs of the fum of the cubes
of any quantities above the triple fum of the products
that can be made by multiplying any three of them.
Thus, az-\-bz-\-cz—ab—ac—(~B — qXp)—
«3+^3+c3—%abc. Therefore if the fum of the cubes
is called C, then ffiall B—qXp—C—jr, and C—Bp—qp
+3'= (becaufe B—p%—2y)=/>3—B/y+Br.
After the fame manner, if D be the fum of the 4th
powers of the roots, you will find that D~pC—qB-\-pr
—qr, and if E be the fum of the 5th powers, then ffiall
E-pD—qC-\-rB—ps^r^t. And after the fame manner
the fum of any powers of the roots may be found; the
progreffion of thefe expreffions of the fum of the powers
being obvious.
As for the figns of the terms of the equation produ¬
ced, it appears, from infpe&ion, that the figns of all the
terms in any equation in the table are alternately + and
—: thefe equations are generated by multiplying conti¬
nually x—a, x—b, x—c, x—d. See. by one another.
The firft term is always fome pure power of x, and is
pofitive; the fecond is a power of x multiplied by the
quantities—a, —b, •—c, &c. And fince thefe are all
negative, that term mull therefore be negative. The
third term has the products of any two of thefe quanti¬
ties (—a, —b, —c, Sec.) for its coefficient; which pro-
duAs are all .pofitive, becaufe —X— gives +. For the
like reafon, the next coefficient, confiding of alh the
produAs made by multiplying any three of thefe quanti¬
ties muft be negative, and the next pofitive. So that
the coefficients, in this cafe, will be pofitive and negative
by turns. But, “ in this cafe the roots are all pofitive
fince x—a, x—b, xzzc, x—d, x~e. See. are the aflumed
fimple equations. It is plain then, that “ when all the
“ roots are pofitive, the figns are alternately + and —.”
But if the roots are all negative, then x-J-aXx-HX
E B R A. 103
x+cXx+d, Sec. =0. will exprefs the eefuation to be pro¬
duced ; all whofe terms will plainly be pofitive; fo that,
“ when all the roots of an equation are negative, it is
“ plain there will be no changes in the figns of the terms
“ of that equation.”
In general, “ there are as many pofitive roots in any e-
“ quation as there are changes in the figns of the terms
from + to —, or from — to +; and the remaining
“ roots are negative.” The rule is general, if the im-
poffible roots be allowed to be either pofitive or negative;
and may be extended to all kinds of equations.
In quadratic equations, the two roots are either both
pofitive, as in this
(x—aXx—5—) x1—ax-i-ab—o,
— bx
where there are two changes of the figns: Or they are
both negative, as in this
(r+ix«+i=)«-Hh,^+i,j=0i
where there is not any change of the figns : Or there is
one pofitive and one negative, as in
(mXx+A=) J _
where there is necefiarily one change of the figns; be¬
caufe the firft term is pofitive, and the laft negative, and
there can be but one change whether the 2d term be 4-
or —.
Therefore the rule given in the laft paragraph extends
to all quadratic equations.
In cubic equations, the roots may be,
i°. ,A11 pofitive, as in this, x—aXx—bXx—£-=o,
in which the figns are alternately -f- and —, as appears
from the table; and there are three changes of the figns.
2°. The roots may be all negative, as in the equation
x-\~aXx-j~bXx ■src-—c> where there can be no change of
the figns. Or,
30. There m^y be two pofitiye roots and one negative,
as in the equation x—aXx—lXx-^-c=o • which gives
x3'—a ^ +ab~)
—b V x1—ac v x-^-abc—o.
4-^3 —bej
Here there mufl be two changes of the figns; becaufe if
is greater than c, the fecond term mufi be negative,
its coefficient being —a—b-{-c.
And if a-^b is lefs than c, then the third term mufl
be negative, its coefficient -rah—ac~—bc(ab-—cXa-\-b) *
being in that cafe negative. And there-cannot poffibly be
three changes of the figns,. the firft and laft terms having
the fame fign.
40. There may be one pofitive root and two negative,
as in the equation x+uXx-f Z’Xx—c=o, which gives
*34-0 4-*0
x1—ac v x-—alc—o.
* Becaiife the re {Jangle aXb is lefs than the fqua re
a-fbXal-b, and therefore rsuch lefs than afbXe.
ic4 A li O E
where there muft: be. always one change of the figns,
fince the firff term is pofitive and the laft negative. And
there can be but one change of the figns, lince if the 2d
term is negative, or a-^-b lefs than c, the third muft be
negative alfo, fo that there will be but one change of the
figns. Or, if the fecond term is affirmative, whatever
the third term is, there will be but one change of the
figns. It appears therefore, in general, that in cubic e-
quations, there are as many affirmative roofs as there are
changes of the figns of the terms of the equation.
There are feveral confe&aries of what has been al¬
ready demonftrated, that are of ufe in difcovering the
roofs of equations. But before we proceed to that, it
will be convenient to explain fome transformations of
equations, by which they may often be rendered more
firnple, and the inveftigation of their roots more eafy.
Chap. XVI. Of the Transformation of E-
quatlon'i; and exterminating their interme¬
diate Terms,
B R A.
“ another that {hall have its roots greater or lefs than
“ the roots of the propofed equation by fome given dif-
“ ference.”
Let the equation propofed be the cubic x3—px1Jrqx
—r=o. And let it be required to transform it into ano¬
ther equation whofe roots fhall be lefs than the roots of
this equation by fome given difference (e), that is, fup-
pofe_>=x—e, and confequently x=>+c ; then, inftead of
x and its powers, fubftitute j-\-e and its powers, and
there will arile this new equation.
—py '—ipey—pe1 {
+ qy+q? ^ ’
whofe roots are lefs than the roots of the preceding e-
quation by the difference (<?).
If it had been required to find an equation whofe roots
{hould be greater than thofe of the propofed equation by
the quantity (e), then we muft have fuppofed _^x-h?,
and confequently x=y—e, and then the other equation
would have had this form.
We now proceed, to explain the transformation of e-
quations that are moft ufeful: and, firft, “ The affirma-
“ tive roots of an equation are changed into negative
“ roots of the fame value, and the negative roots into
“ affirmative, by only changing the figns of the terms
** alternately, beginning with the fecond.” Thus, the
roo.ts of the equation x4—x5—i9x1-|-49x—30=0 are
4-1, -h2, 4-3, —5 ; whereas the roots of thg fame e-
quation, having only the figns of the fecond and fourth
terms changed, v/z. x4-fx?—i9x14-49x-—30=0 are
an equation, as x—aXx—bXx—trXx—e/Xx—e, See. =0,
-whofe roots are -\-a, -\-b, -{-c, -\-d, -f-e, &c. and ano¬
ther, having its roots of the fame value, but affefted with
contrary figns, as xft-flXx+AXx-bcXx-l-^Xx-f^, &c. =0.
It is plain, that the terms taken alternately, beginning
from the firft, are the fame in both equations, and have
the fame fign, “ being produds of an even number
“ of the roots-;” the produdl of any two roots having
the fame fign as their produd when both their figns are
changed; as ft-cX—b——aX-\-b.
But the fecobd terms, and all taken alternately from
them, becaufe their coefficients involve always the pro-
duds of an odd number of the roots, will have contrary
figns in the two equations. For example, the produdt
of four, viz. abed, having the fame fign in both, and
one equation in the fifth term having abcdX-\-e, and
the other abcdX—e, it follows, that their produd abede
muft have contrary figns in the two equations: thefe two
^equations therefore that have the fame roots, but with
contrary figns, have nothing different but the figns of the
alternate terms, beginning with the fecond. From
which it follows, “ that if any equation is given, and
. “ you change the figns of the alternate terfns, begin-
mag with the fecond, the new equation will have roots
of the fame value, but with contrary figns.”
It is often very ufeful “ to transform an equation into
(5>’—3^*+3^V— }
— Py'T^pey—pe'f
-i - qy—ie C
If the propofed'equation be-in this form x34-/x*-(-?x
4-r=o, then, by fuppofing x-\-ez=y, there will arife an e-
quation agreeing in all refpeds with the equation (d),
but that the fecond and fourth terms will have contrary
figns.
And by fuppofing x—e~y, there will arife an equation
agreeing with (B) in all refpeds, but that the fecond
and fourth terms will have contrary figns to what they
have in (2?).
The firft of thefe fuppofitions gives this equation,
+stry— )
+ py 2—2pey +/-<?1C _0
+ qy —qe C
+ r )
The fecond fuppofition gives the equation,
(!>}>• J+3eya+3*y+- eJ'A
+ py'-\-2epyJrpe2(
+ qy+qe C *
+ r )
The firft ufe of this transformation of equations is to
ffiew “ how the iecond (or other intermediate) term may
“ be taken away out of an equation.”
It is plain, that in the equation (d) whofe fecond
term is ge—p'Xy2, if you fuppofe e=yp, and confequently
31?—p~o, then the fecond term will vaniffi.
In the equation (£7) whofe fecond term is —3H"/Xy *»
fuppofing e=yp, the fecond term alfovaniffies.
Now the equatioh (d) was deduced from x3—-/x1-}-
qx—r=o, by fuppofing y—x—e : and the equation [C)
was deduced from x3-r/»xI-f yx-f-r=o; by luppofing^—
x+c. From which this rule may eafily be deduced for
exterminating the fecond term out of any cubic equation.
Rule.
algebra.
105
Rule. Add to the unknown quantity of the given e-
quation the third part of the coefficient of the fecond
' term with its proper fign, viz. rp-f/’j and fuppofe this
aggregate equal to a new unknown quantity (^). From
this value of y find a value of x by tranfpofition, and
lubftitute this value of x and its powers in the given
equation, and there will arife a new equation that ffiall
want the fecond term.
Examp. Let it be required to exterminate the fe¬
cond term out of this equation, x5—9x*+26x—34:=o,
fuppofe x—3~y, or>'+3—x ; and fubllituting according
to the rule, you will find
d's+9d'l+27d'+27^
—9/—54>-8if
-i-26)'+78r
34^i
yi *  -y  10=0.
In which there is no term where y is of two dimenfions,
and an afterilk is placed in the room of the 2d term, to
fliew it is wanting.
Let the equation propofed be of any number of di¬
menfions reprefented by («); and let the coefficient of
the fecond term with its fign prefixed be —/>, then fup-
pofing x —~y-> and confequently x~y \-~t and fubfti-
tuting this value for x in the given equation, there will
arife a new equation that lhall want the fecond term.
It is plain from what was demonfrrated in chap. 15.
that the fum of the roots of the propofed equation is
-f/; and fince we fuppofe y—x—it follows, that, in
the new equation, each value of y will be lefs than the
refpeftive value of x by ; and, fince the number of
the roots is n, it follows, that the fum of the values of
y will be lefs than + p, the fum of the values of x, by
»X—, the difference of any two roots, that is, by
+/>.- therefore the fum of the values of y will be +
p—p-o.
But the coefficient of the fecond term of the equation
of is the fum of the values of viz. •+-/>—/>, and
therefore that coefficient is equal to nothing; and confe¬
quently, in the equation of y, the fecond term vaniffies.
It follows then, that the fecond term may be extermi¬
nated out of any given equation by the following
Rule. Divide the coefficient of the fecond term of
the propofed equation by the number, of,dimenfions of
the equation; and all timing a new unknown quantity
y, add to it the quotient having Its fign changed.
Then fuppofe this aggregate equal to x the unknown
quantity in the propofed equation; and for x and its
powers, fubftitute the aggregate and its powers, fo
lhall the new equation that arifes want its fecond
term.
If the propofed equation is a quadratic, as x*—-px+q
Vol. I. No. 5. 2
=0, then, according to the rule, fuppofe j+^/crx, and
fubfHtuting this value for x, you will find,
y'+py+ip')
—py—ip* > =°>
+ <1 j
y1 *—^p'+qzzo.
And from this example the ufe of exterminating the 2d
term appears: for commonly the folution of the equa¬
tion that wants the 2d term is more eafy. And, if you
can find the value of y from this new equation, it is eafy
to find the value of x, by means of the equation ^+4/’:=x.
For example,
Since y'lJrq—\p1—o) it follows, that
y'—zP'1'—T’* andy^+z^/^p1,—q, fo that
x—y+ip=ip—*/ zP* —q;
which agrees with what we demonftrated, chap. 12.
If the propofed equation is a biquadratic, as x4—px%
-f?x*—rx+r=o, then, by fuppofing x—%p^=y or x—y
-\-\p, an equation ffiall arife having no fecond term.
And if the propofed equation is of 5 dimenfions, then
you mufl: fuppofe x—yz±z\p. Andfo on.
When the fecond term in any equation is wanting, it
follows, that “ the equation has both affirmative andne-
“ gative roots,” and that “ the fum of the affirmative
“ roots is equal to the fum of the negative roots :” by
which means the coefficient of the 2d term, which is the
fum of all the roots of both forts, vaniffies, and makes
the fecond term vaniffi.
In general, “ The coefficient of the 2d term is the
“ difference between the fum of the affirmative roots
“ roots and the fum of the negative roots:” and the
operations we have given ferve only to diminiffi all the
roots when the fum of the affirmative is greateft, or in-
creafe the roots when the fum of the negative is greateft,
fo as to balance them, and reduce them to an equality.
It is obvious, that in a quadratic equation that wants
the fecond term, there muft be one root affirmative and
one negative; and thefe muft be equal to one another.
In a cubic equation that wants the fecond term, there
muft be either two affirmative roots equal, taken toge¬
ther to a third root that muft be negative; or, two ne¬
gative equal to a third that muft be pofitive.
“ Let an equation x3—pxr-\-qx—x=o be propofed,
“ and let it be now required to exterminate the third
“ term.”
By fuppofing y~x—<*, the coefficient of the 3d term
in the equation of y is found (fee equation-^) to be 3**
■—2piJ\rq. Suppofe that coefficient equal to nothing,
and by refolving the quadratic equation g?*—ipe+q—o,
you will find the value of e, which fubftituted for it in
the equation y—x—e, will ffiew how to transform the
propofed equation into one that ffiall want the third term.
The quadratic 3<?z—ipe+q—a, gives r^P—'^P7'
So that the propofed cubic will be transformed into an
equation wanting the third term by fuppofing \y=x—
P—VPZ—M>    P hVfP'—W' _
3 3
+ D d If
io6 ALGEBRA.
If the propofed equation is of » dimenfions, the value
of <r, by which the 3d term may be taken away, is had
2p iq
by refolving the quadratic equation e’-} Xe-\-—=r
n »X»—1
=0, fuppofing —p and -\-q to be the coefficients of the
2d and 3d terms of the propofed equation.
The 4th term of any equation may be taken away by
folving a cubic equation, which is the coefficient of tile
4th term in the equation when transformed, as in the
former part of this chapter. The fifth term may be ta¬
ken away by folving a biquadi atic; and after the fame
manner the other terms can be exterminated if there
are any.
There are other tranfmutations of equations that, on
fome occafions, are ufeful.
An equation, as x3—-px*-\-qx—r=o, “ may be tranf-
“ formed into another that lhall have its roots equal to
“ the roots of this equation multiplied, by a given quan-
“ tity,” as f, by fuppofing y^fx, and confequently
xrrZ-, and fubftituting this value for x in the propofed
, and mul-
equaticn, there will arifejL-—+-y;—rz
tiplying^all by /3 . . y1‘—ft>yx-\-f%qy—Pr=.Oi where
the coefficient of the 2d term of the propofed equation
multiplied into f, makes the coefficient of the 2d term
of the transformed equation ; and the following coeffi¬
cients are produced by the following coefficients of the
propofed equation, (as q, r, &c.) multiplied into the
powers of f &c.)v.
Therefore “ to transform any equation into another
whofe roots {hall be equal to the roots of the propofed
equation multiplied by a given quantity (/■),” you need
only multiply the terms of the propofed equation, begin¬
ning at the 2d term, by /, /J,/3,/4, &c. and put¬
ting y in Read of x, there will arife an equation having
its roots equal to the roots of the propofed equation mul¬
tiplied by (/') as required.
The transformation mentioned above is of ufe when
the highelt term of the equation has a coefficient dif¬
ferent from unity; for, by it, the equation may be tranf-
formed into one that ffiall have the coefficient of the high-
eft term unit.
If the equation propofed is ax3—px^+qx—r—o, then
transform the equation into one whofe roots are equal to
the roots of the propofed equation multiplied by (a).
That is, fuppofe y—ax or x=— and there will arife
‘•yl-lt+11-^0, fo that
y '—py'+W—ra 2=0.
From which we eafily draw this
Rui e. Change the unknown quantity x into another^,
prefix no coefficient to the higheft term, pafs the 2d,
multiply the following terms, beginning with the 3d,
by a, az, aJ, a4, &c. the powers of the coefficient
of the highelt term of the propofed equation, refpec-
tively.
Thus the equation jx3—I3x1+i4x+i6=0, is tranf-
formed into the equation^3—i%y*-{-i4X3Xx-{-i6'X<)~<y
or y5—1 ^ *+42*+144=o.
Then finding the roots of this equation, it will eafily
be difcovered what are the roots of the propofed equation,
fince ^ x—y, or x=jy. And therefore, fince one of the
values of y is —2, it follows, that one of the values of
By the laft rule, “ an equation is eafily cleared of
“ fradtions.” Suppofe the equation propofed is x3—
— x*+ —x —=o. Multiply all the terms by the
produdt of the denominators, you find
mneXx*—nep'Ax1 ■\-meqY.x—mnrzzo.
Then (as above) transforming the equation into one that
(hall have unit for the coefficient of the higheft term,
you find
j3—ntpy.y1 2 e'nqXy—m^n3 e2 r=o.
Or, neglefting the denominator of the laft term—•
you need only multiply all the equation by inn, which
will give
mn'Xx3—/?/Xx2-)-wyXx—™?L=zo. And
then y3—np'Xyt-\-m'lnqY.y-—
Now after the values of y are found, it will be eafy
to difcover the values of x; fince, in the firft cafe.
x=-^— ; in the fecond, x~~ .
mne mn
For example, the equation
x3*—|x—'-Pyzzo, is firft reduced
to this form 3X3*—4X—and then transformed
into y3 *—12y—146=0.
Sometimes, by thefe transformations, “ furds are ta-
“ ken away.” As for example.
The equation x3—p*/aXx*+qx—r 1/0=0, by putting
y—>/axx, orx-
t/a'
is transformed into this equation.
  pA/aY?—-\rqxl. r 1/0=0. Which, By multi-
a/a a i/a
plying all the terms by ai/a, becomes y1—pay*+qay
—ra2=o, an equation free of furds. But in order to
make this fucceed, the furd (\/a) muft enter the alter¬
nate terms, beginning with the fecond.
“ An equation, asx3—pxz+qx—>=o, may be tranf-
“ formed into one whofe roots {hall be the quantities re-
“ ciprocal of xby fuppofing y—
, and y=—, or
(by one fuppofition), x=—, becomes z3—qzz-\~prz—
z
r2=o.
In the equation ofy, it is manifeft, that the order of
the coefficients is inverted ; fo that, if the fecond term
had been wanting in the proposed equation, the laft but
one ffiould have been wanting in the equations ofy and z.
If the 3d had been wanting in the equation propofed,
the laft but two had been wanting in the equations of y
and z.
Another ufe of this transformation Is, that tie great-
A L G I
eji root in the one is transformed into the leaf root in
the other. For fince x = —, and y —-J-, it is plain,
J *
that when the value of x is greateft, the value of j is
lead, and converfely.
How an equation is transformed fo as to have all its
roots affirmative, fhall be explained in the following
chapter.
Chap. XVIT. Of finding the Roots of Equa¬
tions ‘when tui o or more of the Roots are e-
qual to each ether.
$i. Before we proceed to explain how to refolve equa¬
tions of all forts, we fhall firfl: demonftrate hoiu an equa¬
tion that has two or more roots equal, is deprejfed to a
lower dimenfon; and its refolution made, confeouently,
more eafy. And fhall endeavour to explain the grounds
of this and many other rules we fhall give in the remain¬
ing part of this treatife, in a more fimple and concife
mariner than has hitherto been done.
In order to this, we mud look back to the lad chapter,
where we find, that if any equation, asx3—pxx-\-qx—r—o,
is propofed, and you are to transform it into another that
fhall have its roots kfs than the values of x by any given
difference, as e, you are to afTume jv—.r—e, and fubdi-
tuting for x its value jfe, you find the transformed
equation,
yt+yy* fie'yez~\
—py'—ipey—pe' ( _0
+ qy +?' C
Where we are to obferve,
i°. That the lad term (f3—pet-\-qe—r) is the very
equation that was propofed, having e in place of x.
2°. The coefficient of the lad term but one is j?1—
ipe-\-q, which is the quantity that arifes by multiplying
every term of the lad coefficient e3—pP-\-qe—r by the
index of e in each term, and dividing the product q*?3—
2pel-\-qe by the quantity e that is common to all the
terms.
3°. The coefficient of the lad term but two is o,e—■/>,
which is the quantity that arifes by multiplying every
term of the coefficient lad found (ge1—2pe-\-q) by the
index of e in each term, and dividing the whole by 7e.
§ 2. Thefe fame obfervations extend to equations of all
dimenfions. If it is the biquadratic x -—■pxl-\-qx1 — rx+
r=o that is propoftd, then by fuppofing y~x—c, it will
be transformed into this other,
y*+4ej!+6e1y1 + qe3; + <?4
—Py '—Ipef—pe' J
+qy1 + iqey + ye1 >- =0
— ry •— re \
+ r >
Where again it is obvious, That the'lad term is the equa¬
tion that was propofed, having e in place of x : That
the lad term but one has for-its coefficient the quantity
BRA. 107
that arifes by multiplying the terms of the lad quantity
by the indices of e in each term, and dividing the pro-
du<S by e: That the coefficient of the lad term but two,
(viz. 6e'1—Zpe-irq) is deduced in the fame manner from
the term immediately following, that is, by multiplying
every term of qe5—i,pe*-\-2qe—r by the index of e in
that term, and dividing the whole by e multiplied into
the index of^ in the term fought, that is, by ,?X2 : And
the next term is ±e—p— ^-e— *2 .
3e
The demondration of this may eafily be made general
by the theorem for finding the powers of a binomial,
fince the transformed equation confids of the powers of
the binomial that are marked bjr the indices of e in
the lad term, multiplied each by their coefficients, i,
1—P> —r> &c* refpedHvely.
§3.From the lad two articles we can eafilyfindthe terms
of the transformed equation without any involution. The
lad term is had by fubdituting e indead of x in the pro¬
pofed equation; the next term, by multiplying every
part of that lad term by the index of e in each part, and
dividing the whole by e; and the following terms in the
manner deferibed in the foregoing article ; the refpedtivfe
divifors being the quantity e multiplied by the index of
y in each term.
The demondration for finding when two or more roots
are equal will be eafy, if we add to this, that “ when
“ the unknown quantity enters all the terms of any equa-
“ tion, then one of its values is equal tomothing.” As
in the equation x3—px^fqx—o, where x—0=0 being
one of the fimple equations that produce x3—pnx Jr
qxzzo, it-follows that one of the values of x is o. In
like manner, two of the values of x are equal to nothing
in this equation x3-—px1 =0; and three of them vanilh
in the equation x4—px^—o.
It is alfo obvious (converfely) that “ if x does not eff-
“ ter all the terms of the equation, i. e. if the lad term
“ be not wanting, then none of the values of x can be
“ equal to nothing,” for if every term be not multiplied
by x, then x—o cannot be a divifor of the whole equa¬
tion, and confequently o c;,nnot be one of the values
of x. If x* does not enter into all the terms of the equa¬
tion, then two of the values of x cannot be equal to no¬
thing. If x3 does not enter into all the terms of the
equation, then three of the values of x cannot be equal to
nothing,
§ 4. Suppofe now that two values of x are equal to one
another, and to e; then it is plain that two values of^y
in the transformed equation will be equal to nothing:
fince y—x—e. And confeqaently, by the lad article,
the two lad terms of the transformed equation mud va-
niffi.
Suppofe it is the cubic equation of § 1. that is pro¬
pofed, viz. x3—/>«1 -f- qx—r~o ; and becaufe we
fuppofe — e, therefore the lad term of the transformed
equation, viz. —pe'+qe—r will vaniffi. And fince
two values of y vanifh, the lad term but one, viz.
^ef—2pey-\-qy will vaniffi at the fame time. So that
3e*—2pefq=o. But, by fuppofition, e=x; therefore,
when two values of x, in the equation, x3—pxXJfqx—
r=o, are equal, it follows, that 3X1—2/x-}-y=o. And
thus*
to3 A L G I
thus, “ the propofed cubic is depreffed to a quadratic
‘‘ that has one of its roots equal to one of the roots of
that cubic.”
If it is the biquadratic that is propofed, viz. x4—
fxi-\-qx1'—and two of its roots be equal;
then fuppofmg e=x, two ©f the values of j> mull vanifh,
•and the equation of § 2. will be reduced to this form.
_y4+4^,+6.fV*^
——'Spey*'> * * — o. So that
+ *3
4?’ — ipe'-\-2qt — r=o; or, becaufe x = et
4X-3 — 3/>x 4 + 2?x — r = o.
In general, when two values of x are equal to each
other, and to e, the two lafl terms of the transformed
equation vanilh: and confequently, “ if you multiply
the terms of the propofed equation by the indices of
“ x in each term, the quantity that will arife will be =0,
and will give an equation of a lower dimenfion than
■ “ the propofed, that (hall have one of its roots equal
/.• to one of the roots of the propofed equation.”
That the lalt two terms of the equation vanilh when
the values of x are fuppofed equal to each other, and to
e, will alfo appear by confidering, that fince two values
of y then become equal to nothing, the product of the
values ofy mult vanilh, which is equal to the lalt term
of the equation; and becaufe two of the four values of
y are equal to nothing, it follows alfo that one of any
three that can be taken out of thefe four mull be — o
and therefore, the produfts made by multiplying any
three mull vanilh; and confequently the coefficient of
the lad term but one, which is equal to the fum of thefe
products, mull vanilh.
§5. After the fame manner, if there are three equal roots
in the biquadratic \4—px^+qx7,—rx-l*/=o, and if a be
equal to one of them, three values of y (=x—s) will
vaniffi, and confequently y3 will enter all the terms of
the transformed equation; which will have this form,
y "^"^5 ? * * * =0. So that here
— py'y
6e1—3pe-\-q—0; or, lince <?=x, therefore,
6v4—3/>x+5’=o: and one of the roots of this qua¬
dratic will be equal to one of the roots of the propofed
biquadratic.
In this cafe, two of the roots of the cubic equation
4X3—3/>xJ-l-2?x—r=o are roots of the propofed biqua¬
dratic, becaufe the quantity 6xl—3px-Yq is deduced
from,4s3—3/>xJ-f25,x—r, by multiplying the terms by
the indexes of x in each term.
In general, “ whatever is the number of equal roots
“ in the propofed equation, they will all remain but one
“ in the equation that is deduced from it, by multiplying
“ all the terms by the indexes of x in them ; and they
•“ will all remain but two in the equation deduced in the
“ fame manner from that;” and fo of the reft.
§ 6. "What we obferved of the coefficients of equations
transformed by fuppofing y—x—<?, leads to this eafy de-
monllration of this rule; and will be applied in the next
chapter to demonftrate the rules for finding the limits of
equations.. ;
: B R A.
It is obvious, however, that though we make ' ufe of
equations whofe figns change alternately, the fame rea-
foning extends to all other equations.
It is a confequenqe alfo of what has been demonftra-
ted, that “ if two roots of any equation, as,
“ x3—^px2-i-qx—r=o, are equal, then
“ multiplying the terms by any arithmetical ffiries, as,
“ a+3^, «+2^, a-\-b, a, the produdt will be =0.”
"For, fince
ax3—apx1 -\-aqx—ar~o ; and
jx 4—2px-\-qXbx—0, it follows that
ax3-f^x3—apx4—2bpx'2-\-aqx+bqx—ar=o.
Which is the product that arifes by multiplying the
terms of the propofed equation by the terms of the fe-
ries, a+^b, a-\-2b, a-\-b, a; which may reprefent any
arithmetical progreflion.
Chap. XYIII. Of tJ>e Limits of Equations.
We now proceed to ffiew how to difcover the limits
of the roots of equations, by which their folution is
much facilitated.
Let any equation, as x3—px7-\-qx—r~o be propofed;"
and transform it, as above, into the equation
73+3f>’*+3'?*>'+^3Y
—py* 2Pry PeT
+ qy +
Where the values of y are lefs than the refpedtive values
of x by the difference e. If you fuppofe e to be taken
fuch as to make all the coefficients of the equation of y
pofitive, viz. ez—pe2-^qe—r, ^e7,—2pe-\-q, —p;
then there being no variation of the figns in the equa¬
tion, all the values of y mult be negative; and confe¬
quently, the quantity e, by which the values of x are
diminiffied, mull be greater than the greatell pofitive value
of x ; and confequently mull be the limit of the roots of
the equation x3—px'1-\-qx—r=:o.
It is fufficient therefore, in order to find the limit, to
“ inquire what quantity fubftituted for x in each of thefe
“ expreffions x3—px2-+qx—r, 3X4—2px-\-q, 3X—p,
“ will give them all pofitive ;” for that quantity will be
the limit required.
How thele expreffions are formed from one another,
was explained in the beginning of the lalt chapter.
Examp. If the equation xs — 2X* — iox3+30,v4-i-
63x-|-i2o:=o is propofed; and it is required to deter¬
mine the limit that is greater than any of the roots; you
are to inquire what integer number fubftituted for x in the
propofed equation, and following equations deduced from
it bj § 3. chap. 17. will give, in each, a pofitive quantity^
5X4—8x3—30x4+6ox+63
5X3—6x2— 1 jx -fry
5X4—4x —5
5* —2.
The lealt integer number which gives each of thefe
pofitive, is 2 ; which therefore’is the limit of the roots
of
ALGEBRA. 109
of the propofed equation; or a number that exceeds the
greatelf pofitive root.
If the limit of the negative roots is required, you may
(by chap. 16.) change the negative into pofitive roots, and
then proceed as before to find their limits Thus, in the
example, you will find, that —3 is the limit of the nega¬
tive roots. So that the five roots of the propofed equa¬
tion are betwixt —3 and -+-2.
Having found the limit that furpafles the greateft po¬
fitive root, call it m. And if you affume y—m—x, and
for x fubftitute m—y, the equation that will arife will
have all its roots pofitive; becaufe m is fuppofed to fur-
pafs all the values of x, and confequently m—x (=^) muft
always be affirmative. And, by this means, any equa¬
tion may be changed into one that Jhall have all its roots
affirmative.
Or, if —n reprefent the limit of the negative roots,
then by affumingy=x-\-n, the propofed equation ffiall be
transformed into one that ffiall have all its roots affirma¬
tive ; for +« being greater than any negative value of x,
it follows, that^=x+» muft be always pofitive.
The greateft negative coefficient of any equation in-
creafed by- unit, always exceeds the greatefi root of the
equation.
To demonftrate this, let the cubic x3—px7,—qx—
r=so be propofed; where all the terms are negative ex¬
cept the firft. Affuming y~x—e, it will be transformed
into the following equation;
{ y'+W'+^e'y+e'
—py'—2pey—pex
— qy — qe
r<\ Let us fuppofe that the coefficients />, q, r, are
equal to each other; and if you alfo fuppofe
then the laft equation becomes
(Z?)>3+2/>/+/>>H')
+3d’*+3// >=o;
+y 3
where all the terms being pofitive, it follows that the
values of^ are all negative, and that confequently e, or
p+1, is greater than the greateft value of x in the pro-
pofed equation.
2°. If y and r be not =p, but lefs than it, and for e
you ftill fubftitute/>+! (fince the negative part [—qy—qe J
becomes lefs, the pofitive remaining undiminiffied,) a for¬
tiori, all the coefficients of the equation (A) become
pofitive. And the fame is obvious if q and r have pofi¬
tive figns, and not negative figns, as we fuppofed. It
appears therefore, “ that if, in any cubic equation, p
“ be the greateft negative coefficient, then /+i muft fur-
“ pafs the greateft value of x.”
30. By the fame reafoning it appears, that if q be
the greateft negative coefficient of the equation, and
then there will be no variation of the figns in
the equation ofy: for it appears from the laft article,
that if all the three (/>, q, r,) were equal to one another,
and e equal to any one of them increafed by unit, as to
y-j-i, then all the terms of the equation-would be
Vol. I. No. 5. 3
pofitive. Now if e be fuppofed ftill equal to y-f-i, and
p and r to be lefs than q, then, a fortiori, all thefe
terms will be pofitive, the negative part, which involves
p and r being diminiffied, while the pofitive part and the
negative involving q remain as before.
40. After the fame manner it is demonftrated, that if
r is the greateft negative coefficient in the equation, and
e is fuppofed ~r+i, then all the terms of the equation
(y/) oi'y will be pofitive ; and confequently r-|-i will be
greater than any of the values of x.
What we have faid of the cubic equation x3—/>x4-i-
qx—r=o, is eafily applicable to others.
In general, we conclude, that “ the greateft negative
“ coefficient in any equation increafed by unit, is always
" a lirftit that exceeds all the roots of that equation.”
But it is to be obferved at the fame time, that the
greateft negative coefficient increafed by unit, is very
feldom the nearejl limit: that is belt discovered by the
rule in the beginning of this chapter.
Having (hewn how to change any propofed equation
into one that ffiall have all its roots affirmative; we ffiall
only treat of fuch as have all their roots pofitive, in what
remains relating to the limits of equations.
Any fuch equation may be reprefented by x—a Xx—b
Xx—cX x — d. See. =0, whofe roots are a, b, c, d, &c.
And of all fuch equations two limits are eafily difeo-
vered from what precedes, viz. o, which is lefs than the
leaft, and e, found as directed in the beginning of this
chapter, which furpaffies the greateft root of the equation.
But, befides thefe, we ffiall now flrew how to find 0-
ther limits betwixt the roots them/elves. And, for this
purpofe, will fuppofe a to be the leaft root, b the fecond
root, c the third, and fo on ; it being arbitrary.
If you fubftitute o in place of the unknown quantity,
putting x=o, the quantity that will arife from that fup-
pofition is the laft term of the equation, all the others
that involve x vaniffiing.
If you fubftitute for x a quantity lefs than the leaft:
root 7, the quantity refulting will have the fame fign as
the laft term; that is, will be pofitive or negative ac¬
cording as the equation is of an even or odd number of
dimenfions. For all the factors x—a, x—b, x—c, &c.
will be negative, and their produift will be pofitive or ne¬
gative according as their number is even or odd.
If you fubftitute for x a quantity greater than the leaft
root a, but lefs than all the other roots, then the fign of
the quantity refulting will be contrary to what it was be¬
fore ; becaufe one fadtor (x — af becomes now pofitive,,
all the others remaining negative as before.
If you fubftitute for x a quantity greater than the two
leaft roots, but lefs than all the reft, both the fadtors
x-—a, x—b, become pofitive, and the reft remain as
they were. So that the whole produdt will have the
fame fign as the laft term of the equation. Thus fuccef-
fively placing inftead of x quantities that are limits be¬
twixt the roots of the equation, the quantities that re-
fult will have alternately the figns + and —. And,
converfely, “ if you find quantities which, fubftituted in
“ 'place of x in the propofed equation, do give alter-
** nately pofitive and negative refults, thofe quantities
** are the limits of that equation.”
| E e It
no A L G I
It is ufeful to obferve, that, in general, “ when, by
“ fubrtituting any two numbers for x in any .equation,
“ the refults have contrary figns, one or more of the
“ roots of the equation muft be betwixt thofe numbers.
Thus, in the equation, x}—2-v2—5=0, if you fubfti-
tute 2 and 3 for x, "the remits are —5, +4; whence it
follows, that the roots are betwixt 2 and,3 : for when
thefe refults have different figns, one or other of the
fadtors which produce the equations muft have changed
its fign ; fuppofe it is then it is plain that e muft
be betwixt the numbers fuppofed equal to x.
Let the cubic equation x3—pxr-\-qx—r—o be pro-
pofed, and let it be transformed, by affuming y—x—e,
into the equation
y'-srWx +3?V +
—Py 2 —2>9- —P^C-n
4* qy -\-qe C
Let us fuppofe e equal fuccefiively to the three values
of x, beginning with the lead value; and becaufe the
laft term e'—pex-\-qe—r will vanifh in all thefe fuppofi-
tions, the equation will have this form,
^2+3^+ 3?27
—py—ip6 \ =°>
+ ? 3
where the lafl: term 3ea—^peJrq is» from the nature of
equations, produced of the remaining values of y, or of
the exceffes of two other values of x above what is fup¬
pofed equal to e; fince always 4'-—x—e. Now,
i°. If,? be equal to the lead value of x, then thofe
two exceffes b ing both pofitive, they will give a pofitive
produdf, and confequently 31?*—2pe-\-q will be,, in this
cafe, pofitive.
2'*!' If e be equal to the fecond value of x, then, of
thofe two exceffes, one being negative and one pofitive,
their produdt q?5,—2pe-\-q, will be negative.
30. If e be equal to the third and greatefl value of x,
then the two exceffes being both negative, their produdt
31?*—2pe-\-q is pofitive. Whence,
If in the equation 31?2—ipe+q—o, you fubflitute fuc-
ceffively in the place of c, the three roots of the equa¬
tion e3—pe1-\-qt—r=o, the quantities refulting will
fpcceffively have the figns +, —, ; and confequently
the three roots of the cubic equation are the limits of
the roots of the equation 3a1—2pe-\-q~o, That
is, the lead of the roots of the cubic is lefs than the
lead of the roots of the other ; the fecond. root of
the cubic is a limit between the two roots of the other;
and the greated root of the cubic is the limit that ex¬
ceeds both the roots of the other.
We .have demondrated, that the roots of the cubic
equation a3—pe* Vqe—r=o are limits of the quadratic
3?1—2pe-\-q\ whence it follows (converfely) xhvti. the
roots of the quadratic 3a1—2/>a+y—o are the limits be¬
tween the fir it and fecond, and between the' fecond and
third roots of the cubic a3—pe^+qe—r=o. So that if you
find the limit that exceeds the greated root of the cubic,
by the beginning of this chapter you will have (with o,
: B R A.
which is the limit lefs than any of the roots) four li¬
mits for the threeroots of the propofed cubic.
It was demondrated in chap. 17. §3. how the quadratic
3a1—2pe-\-q is deduced from the propofed cubic a3 —
pe'+qe—r=o, viz. by multiplying each term by the
index of e in it, and then dividing the whole by e ; and
what we have demondrated of cubic equations is eafily
extended to all others; fo that we conclude “ that the
“ lad term but one of the transformed equation is the
“ equation for determining the limits of the propofed
“ equation.” Or, that the equation arifing by multi¬
plying each term by the index of the unknown quantity
in it, is the equation whofe roots give the limits of the
propofed equation; if you add to them the two mention¬
ed in p. 109. col. 2.. par. 4.
For the fame reafon, it is plain that the root of the
fimple equation 3?—g—o, (i. e. ^-p) is the limit be¬
tween the two roots of the quadratic ^e1—2pe-\-q—o.
And, as 4?3—3pe1+2qs—rz=o gives three limits of the
equation e4—pe,-\-qez—r?4-j-=o, fo the quadratic
6<?*—2pe-\-q—o gives two limits that are betwixt the
roots of the cubic 4?3 — 3/W + 27? — r = o ; and
4?—p=o gives one limit that is betwixt the two roots
of the quadratic 6ez—3/^4-7=0. So that we have a
complete feries of thefe equations' arifing from a fimple
equation to the propofed, each of which determines the
limits of the following equation.
If two roots in the propofed equation are e ual,
then “ the limit that ought to be betwixt them mud,
“ in this cafe, become equal to one of the equal roots
“ themfelves.” Which perfeftly agrees with what was
demondrated,in the lad chapter, concerning the rule for
finding the equal roots of equations.
And, the fame equation that gives the limits, giving
alfo one of the equal roots, when two or more are equal,
it appears, that “ if you fubditute a limit in place of
“ the unknown quantity in an equation,” and, indead
of a pofitive or negative refult, it be found =0, then you
may conclude, that “ not only the limit itfelf is a root
“ of the equation, but that there are two roots in that
“ equation equal to it and to one another.'”
It having been demondrated. that the roots of the
equation x3 —pxz-i-qx—r—o are the limits of the roots
of the equation 3X*—2px-\-q-=o, the three roots of the
cubic equation, which fuppofe to be a, b. c, fubdituted
for x in the quadratic 3X2—2px-\-q, mud give the re¬
fults pofitive and negative alternately. Suppofe thefe
three refults to be ; that is, 3 71—
2pa-\-q—N, o)bz—2pbJ~q——M, 3<r1—2pc-\-q—L ; and
fince #3——r=o, and 3^ 3—2pa1-\-qa—N'/.at
fubt raff ing the former multiplied into 3 from the latter,
the remainder is />«*•—2qa-\-o>r—N'>ia. In the fame
manner pbz—2y<M-3r=—MY.b, and gc*—2fc-\-^r=z+
LXc. Therefore pxl—2qx->r^r is fuch a quantity, that
if, for x, you fubditute in it fucceffively a, b, c, the re¬
fults will be +./VX /, —My.b, +LXc. Whence a, b, c,
are limits of the equation g >.1—2qxJ(-3lr~o, by p. 109.
col. 2. par. 8. and, converfely, the roots of the equation
p<'1—2qx-\-2>r—o are limits between the fird and fecond,
and between the fecond and third roots of the cubic x3—
pxz-\-qx—r—o. Now the equation /x1—2qx-\-y~o a-
A L G
fifes- from the propofed cubic by multiplying the terms
of this latter by the arithmetical progreffion o, —x, —2,
—3. And, in the fame manner, it may be ihewn that
the roots of the equation px*—2yv—4s—o are
limits of the equation x*—— rx-j-/—O.
Or, multiply the terms of the equation
x3 —px1 -\-qx—r~o
by a-\-2b, a-\-b, a
ax3—apxx-\-aqx—ar (=0)
-j"3^*3—2bpx1-\-bqx 2/>^+yX^x.)
Any arithmetical feries where a is the leaft term, and b
the common difference, and the products (if you fubfti-
tute for x, fucceffively, a, b, c, the three roots of the pi o-
pofed cubic) {hall be +Nx.bx, •—Mx.bx-{ LXbx. For the
firft part of the produft «Xx3—p x-{ qx—r=o ; and
a, b, c, being limits in the equation 2)x'l—2px-\-q—0,
their fubllitution mull give refu'lts N, M, L, alternately
pofitive and negative.
In general, the roots of the equation xn —pxn—1-\-
qxn—1—rxn—3-j-, See. —o are limits of the roots of the
equation »x”—1—»—iY.pxn—1-\-n—2Xqxn—3-—n—3X
rx"—4-l-, 8cc. —o; or of any equation that is deduced from
it by multiplying its terms by any arithmetical progref¬
fion, ^f.z2b, n-j-jh, /7—-/]h, &c. And, con-
verfely, the roots of this new* equation will be limits of
the propofed equation
x"—pxH—I-!rqxn—1—, See. =0.
’ “ Tf any roots of the equation of the limits are im-
“ poluhie, then mu ft there be fome roots of the propofed
“ equation impoffible.3* For as (inp. no. col. 1. par. 2.)
the quantity —2pe-\-q was demonftrated to be equal to
the produdt of the exceffes of two values of x above the
third fuppofed equal to if any impoflible exprelfion
be Fbilnd in thofe exceffes, then there will of conlequence
be found impoffible expreffions in thefe two values of x.
And “ from this obfervation rules may be deduced for
u difeovering when there are impoffible roots in equa-
** tions.” (Jf which we (hall treat afterwards.
Befides the method already explained, there are others
by which limits may be determined wrhich the root of
an equation cannot exceed.
Since the fquares of all real quantities are affirmative,
it follows, that “ the fura of the fquares of the roots of
“ any equation mud be greater than thefquare of the
“ greateft root.” And the fquare root of that fum will
therefore be a limit that mud exceed the greateft robt of
the equation.
If the equation propofed is x”—px”—1-\rqxn—3 —
rx”—3+,. &c. —o, then the fum of the fquares of the
roots (p. 103. col. 1. par. 1 ) will be p2—2q. So that
y'/1—2? will exceed the greateft root of that equation.
Or if you find, by p. 103. col. 1. par. 4. the fum of
the 4th powers of the roots of .the equation, and extraft
the biquadratic root of that fum, it will alfo exceed the
greateft root of the equation.
If you find a mean proportional between the fum of
the fquares of any two roots, a, b, and the fum of their
S B R A. Ill
biquadrates (tf4-H4,) this mean proportional will be
And the fum of the cubes is
ai+b}. Now, fince a1—2ab-\-b2 is the fquare of a—bt
it muft be always pofitive; and if you multiply it by a2 b2,
the produdt a'b1—2a3b3-\-a2b2 will alfo be pofitive;
and confequently a*b2-\-a2b* will be always greater than
2ct3b3. Add a^+b6 and we have a6-\-a*b2-\-a1b*-\-b<i
greater than a6-ir2a3b3-{-b'i; and extracting the root
greater than a}+A3. And the
fame may be demonftrated of any number of roots what¬
ever.
Now, if you add the fum of all the cubes taken affir¬
matively to their fum with their proper figns, they will
give double the fum of the cubes of the affirmative roots.
And if you fubtract the fecond fum from the firft, there
will remain double the fum of the cubes of the negative
roots. Whence it follows, that “ half the fum of the
“ mean proportional betwixt the fum of the fquares
“ and the fum of the biquadrates, and of the fum
“ of the cubes of the roots with their proper figns, ex-
“ ceeds the fum of the cubes of the affirmative roots
and “ half their difference exceeds the fum of the cubes
“ of the negative roots.” And, by extrading the cube
root of that fum and difference, you will obtain limits
that ffiall exceed the fums of the affirmative and of the
negative roots. And fine® it is eafy, from what has
been already explained, to diminifti the roots of an equa¬
tion fo that they all may become negative but one, it ap¬
pears how, by this means, you may approximate very
near to that root. But this does not ferve when there
are impoffible roots.
Several other rules like thefe might be given for limi¬
ting the roots of equations. We lhall give one not men¬
tioned by other authors.
In a cubic x3—pxl-\-qx—r=o, find q2—2pr, and call
it tf4 ; then {hall the greateft root of the equation always
be greater than 3, or / — • And,
V 3
In any equationlx"—/x"~I+.7xn—1—rx”-3+, Sec. =0,
find ? —2/>r+2_f, and extrading the root of the 4th
power out of that quantity, it ffiall always' be lefs than
the greateft root of the equation.
Chap. XIX. Of the Refolution of Equations,
all whofe Roots are commenfurate.
It was demonftrated in chap. 1 j. that thelaft term of
any equation is the produd of its roots : from which it
follows, that the roots of an equation, when commenfu-
rable quantities, will be found among the divifors of the
laft term. And hence we have, for the refolution of e-
quations, this
Rule. Bring all the terms to one fide of the equation,
find all the divifors of the laft term, and fubftitute
them fucceffively for the unknown quantity in the equa¬
tion. So fhall that divifor which, fubftituted in this
manner.
fil A L G E R R A.
manner, gives the re fait =o, be the root of the pro-
pofed equation.
For example, fuppofe this equation is to be refolved,
a.'3—
— bxz-\"iabx
where,the lafl term is 2azb, whofe fimple literal divifors
are a, b, 2a, 2b, each of which may be taken either
pofitively or negatively: but as here we find there are
variations of figns in the equation, we need only take
them pofitively. Suppofe x~a the firft of the divifors,
and fubliituting a for a, the equation becomes
<j!—•>)a'-\-2a 5—2a* b
—a'b
3a3—3a5+3a1i—l^b—0
So that, the whole vaniihing, it follows, that a is one
of the roots of the equation.
After the fame manner, if you fubftitute b in place of
x, the equation is
£3—7)abz-\-2axb—2a1 bl
—53+3^* 5
duce from the root already found, and the quotient (hall
give an equation of a degree lower than the propofed j
whofe roots will give the remaining roots required.
As for example, the root +3, firll found, gave *=3,
or x—3=0, whence dividing thus,
x—3) x3—2xi—33X+90 {x%Jfx—30
x3—ax"
xl—33A+90
A1—3A
 3OA+9O
 3OA+9O
o o
The quotient (hall give a quadratic equation a*+v—30
=0, which muft be the product of the other two fimple
equations from which the cubic is generated, and whofe
roots therefore muft be two of the roots of that cubic.
Now the roots of that quadratic equation are eafily
found, by chap. 12. to be + 3 and—6. For,
which vaniftiing, (hews b to be another root of the equa¬
tion
Again, if you fubftitute 2a for a, you will find all
the terms deftroy one another fo as to make the fum =0.
For it will then be
*l+.«=30
add-J- . . x1 -3 o-r1
=t=-T
and . . A==t=-i5t—i=+5 or —6.
8<*3—12«3+4«3—2a* b
—qa* b+bd1 b
}=o.
Whence we find, that 2a is the third root of the equa¬
tion. Which, after the firft two (+x, -\-b,) had been
found, might have been collected from this, that the laft
term being the product of the three roots, -\-a, -H? be¬
ing known, the third muft neceffarily be equal to the laft
term divided by the produtt ab, that is, —^=20.
ab .
Let the roots of the cubic equation
. a 3—2A1—3 3 A-j-qo^ro be required.
And firft the divifors of 90 are found to be 1, 2, 3, 5,
6, 9, xo, 13, 18, 30, 45, 90. If you fubftitute 1 for
a, you will find a3—2A1—33x+90=56; fo that 1 is
not a root of the equation. If you fubftitute 2 for a,
the refultwill be 24: but, putting x=3, you have
a3—2x*—33x4-90=27—18—994-90=117—117=0.
So that three is one of the roots of the propofed equa¬
tion. The other affirmative root is 4"5 ; and after you
find it, as it is manifeft from the equation^ that the other
root is negative, you are not to try any more divifors ta¬
ken pofitively, but to fubftitute them, negatively taken,
for a : and thus you find, that —6 is the third root.
For putting x=—6, you have
a3—2a1—33x4-90=—216—724-i 984-90=0.
This laft root might have been found by dividing the
laft term 90, having its fign changed by 13, the produdt
of the two roots already found.
When one of the roots of an equation is found, in
order to find the reft with lefs trouble, divide the propo¬
fed equation by the fimple equation which you are to de¬
After the fame manner, if the biquadratic a4—2xr—
25**4-26x4-120=0 is to be refolved; by fubftituting
the divifors of 120 for a, you will find, that 4-3, one
of thofe divifors, is one of the roots; the fubftitution of
3 for * giving 81—54—2254-784-120=279—279=0.
And therefore, dividing the propofed equation by a—3,
you muft inquire for the roots of the cubic *3 4-* 2—22*
—40=0, and finding that 4-5, one of the divifors of
40, is one of the roots, you divide that cubic by x—5,
and the quotient gives the quadratic *14-6*4-8=0, whofe
two roots are —2, —4. So that the four roots of the
biquadratic are 4-3, 4-J, —2, •—4
This rule fuppofes that you can find all the divifors of
the laft term ; which you may always do thus.
“ If it is a fimple quantity, divide it by its leaft divi-
“ for that exceeds unit, and the quotient again by its
“ leaft divifor, proceeding thus till you have a quotient
“ that is not divifible by any number greater than unit.
“ This quotient, with thefe divifors, are the firft or
“ fimple divifors of the quantity. And the products of
“ the multiplication of any 2, 3, 4, &e, of them are
“ the eompound divifors."
As to find the divifors of 6d; firft I divide by 2,
and the quotient 30 again by 2, then the the next ouo-
15 by 3, and the quotient of this divifion 5 is not farther
divifible by any integer above units; fo that the fimple
divifors are,
2, 2, 3. 5 5
The produ&s of two, 4, 6, 10, 15.
The produ&s of three, 12, 20, 30.
The produd of all four, 60.
The dirifors of 90 are found after the fame manner;
Simple
G
A L
Simple divifors, 2, 3, 3, 5.
The products of tv/o, . . 6, 9, 10, 15.
The produfts of three, . . 18, 30, 45.
The produdt of all four,  90.
The divifors of ziabb.
The Ample divifors, 3, 7, «, £,
The produfts of two, 21, 3#, 3^, ^a, 'jb, ab, bb.
The produfts of three, 21^, 21^, ^ab, 3M, 'jab,
jbb, abb.
The produfts of four, 2iab, 2ibb, %abb, Jabb.
The products of the five, .... 2iabb.
But as the laft term may have very many divifors, and
the labour may be very great to fubftitute them all for
the unknown quantity, we fhall now fhew how it may be
abridged, by limiting to a fmall number the divifors you
are to try. And, firft, it is plain, from p. >09. col. x.
par. 4. that “ any divifor tliat exceeds the greateft nega-
“ tive coefficient by unity is to be negledted.” Thus, in
refolving the equation —2jcj—2yA?1+26^+i20=o, as
2 5 is the greateft negative coefficient, we conclude, that
the divifors of 120 that exceed 26 may be neglected.
But the labour may be ftill abridged, if we make ufe of
the rule in the beginning of ch. 18.; that is, if we find the
number which fubftituted in thefe following expreflions,
X* 2x‘i—2S**+26*+I20,
2*1—3*1—25* +13.
6x%—6x •—25,
2x —I,
will give in them all a pofitive refult: for that number
will be greater than the greateft root, and all the divifors
of 120 that exceed it may be negledted.
That this inveftigation may be ealier, we ought .to be¬
gin always with that expreffion where the negative roots,
feemto prevail moft ; as here in the quadratic exprefiion
6a-1—6*—2 5 ; where finding that 6 fubftituted for x
gives that expreffion pofitive, and gives all the other ex-
preffions at the fame time pofitive, I conclude, that 6 is
greater than any of the roots, and that all the divifors
of 120 that exceed 6 may be negle&ed.
If the equation 1 A1+iOAr-=-72=o is propofed,
the rule of p. 109. col. 1. par. 4. does not help to abridge
the operation; the laft term itfelf being the greateft nega¬
tive term. But, by chap. 18. we inquire what number
fubftituted for x will give all thefe expreffions pofitive.
x5-l-i ix1+iox—72
3^1+22a-1-io
3*+n.
E B R A. 113
Where the labour is very ffiort, fince we need only at¬
tend to the firft expreffion; and we fee immediately that
4 fubftituted for ^ gives a pofitive refult, whence all the
divifors of 72 that exceed 4 are to be rejected; and thus
by a few trials, we find, that +2 is the pofitive root of
the equation. Then dividing the equation by x—2, and
refolving the quadratic equation that is the quotient of
the divifion, you find the other two roots to be —9, and
—4.
But there is another method that reduces the divifors
of the laft term, that can be ufeful, ftill to more narrow-
limits.
Suppofe the cubic equation at 5—pxl+qx—r=o is pro¬
pofed to be refolved. Transform it to an equation whof?
roots lhall be lefs than the values of x by unity, afiu-
ming y—x—1. And the laft term of the transformed
equation will be 1—-/-H'—r; which is found by fubfti-
tuting unit, the difference of x andy, for at, rin the pro¬
pofed equation; as will eafily appear from p. 106. col. 1
par. 4. where, when y~x—e, the laft term of the tranf-
formed equation was e1—pe’l-\-qt—r.
Transform again the equation xt—px%-{-qx—r=o, by
affuming^^Ari-i, into an equation whofe roots fhall ex¬
ceed the values of x by unit, and the laft term of the
transformed equation will be —1—p—q—r, the fame
that arifes by fubftituting —1, the difference betwixt x
and j, for x, in the propofed equation.
Now the Values of x are feme of the divifors of r,
which is the term left when you fuppofe x=o; and the
values of the y’s are feme of the divifors of +1—p~rq
—r, and of —1—p—q—r, refpe&ively.i And thefe
values are in arithmetical progreffion increafing by the
common difference unit; becaufe x—i, x, x+i, are in
that progreffion. And it is obvious the fame reafoning
may be extended to any equation of whatever degree.
So that this gives a general method for the refolution of
equations whofe roots are commenfurable.
Rule. Subftitute, in place of the unknown quantity,
fucceffively the terms of the progreffion, 1, o, —1,
&c. and find all the divifors of the fums that refiilt;
then take out all the arithmetical progreffions you can
find among thefe divifors, whofe common difference is
unit; and the values of x will be among the divifors
arifing from the fubftitutions of x=o that belong to
thefe progreffions. The values of x will be affirmative
when the arithmetical progreffion increafes, but nega¬
tive when it decreafes.
Examp. Let it be required to find one of the roots
of the equation x3—xl-—iox+6=o. The operation is
thus;
\Suppof.
Refult.
■ 1—iox+6= y
Divifors. Arith.Prog.decr.
61,2,3, 63 gives x——3
Where the fuppofitions of x=i,, x=o, x=—give the 4, 3, 2; the term of which, oppofite to the fiippofition
quantity x5—x2—iox+6 equal to—4, 6, 14; among of x=o, being 3, and the feries decreafing, we try if
whofe. divifors we find only one arithmetical progreffion —3 fubftituted for x makes the equation vanifti; which
Vol.I. No. y. 3 f Ff fucceeding
114 A L G E B R A:
{ucceeding one of its roots mufl: be —3. Then divi- If it is required to find the roots of the equation
ding the equation by x+g, we find the roots of the x1 — jx1 qdx — 72 = o, the operation will' be
(quadratic) quotient x*—4X+2=:o are 2^\^2. thus ;
\P rogreffion
S uppof\Refu Its
Divi for.
- 120 1,293,4,5,6,8,10,12,15,20,24,30,40,60,120
: o —• 72 1,2,3,4,6,8,9,12,18,24,36,72.
—I — 30 1,2,3,5,6,10,1 5,30. 
8 3 4 5
9 2 3 4
!Q I 2 3
Of thefe four arithmetical progreffions having their
common difference equal to unit, the firft gives x=9, the
others give x=—2, x= —3, —4; all which fuc-
ceed except x=—3 : fo that the three values of x are
+9, —2, —4.
Chap. XX. Of the Refolution of Equations
by finding the Equations of a lower Degree
that are their Divifors.
To find the roots of an equation is the fame thing as
to find the fwifle equations, by the multiplication of
which into one another it is produced, or, to find the
fimple equations that divide it without a remainder.
If fuch fimple equations cannot be found, yet if we
can find the quadratic equations from which the propofed
equation is produced, we may difcover its roots after¬
wards by the refolution of thefe quadratic equations.
Or, if neither thefe fimple equations, nor thefe quadra¬
tic equations can be found, yet, by finding a cubic ot
biquadratic that is a divifor of the propofed equation,
we may deprefs it lower, and make the folution more
eafy.
Now, in order to find the rules by which thefe divi¬
fors may be difcovered, we lhall fuppofe, that
mx—n C fimple
tux1—nx-\-r Care the < quadratic
tnx*—nx2-\-rx—sj £ cubic
divifors of the propofed equation; and if E reprefent
the quotient arifing b'y dividing the propofed equation by
that divifor, then
ExT~=7),
EXnix7—nx-\-r.
Or, EXuix*—«xJ-frx—/, will reprefent the propofed
equation itfelf. Where it is plain, that “ fince m is the
“ coefficient of the higheft term of the divifors, it mull
“ be a divifor of the coefficient of the higheft term of
“ the propofed equation.” '
Next we are to obferve, that, fuppofing the equation
has a fimple divifor mx—«, if we fubftitute in the equa¬
tion Ey.mx—n, in place of x, any quantity, as a, then
the quantity that will refult from this fubftitution will
necelfarily have ma—n f r one of its divilbrs: fince, in
this fubftitution, tnx—n becomes ma—n.
If we fubftitute fucceffively for x, any arithmetical
progreffion, a, a—e, a—2^, &c. the quantities that will
refult from thefe fubftitutions will have among their di¬
vifors
ma—n,
ma—me—»,
ma—2me—«, which are alfo in arithmetical pro¬
greffion, having their common difference equal to me.
If, for example, we fubftitute for x the terms of this
progreffion, 1, o, —x, the quantities that refult have a-
mong their divifors the arithmetical progreffion m—n,
—«, ——n ; or, changing the figns, n—m, n, n-\-m
Where the difference of the terms is m, and the term
belonging to the fuppofition of x=o is n.
It is manifeft therefore, that when an equation has any
fimple divifor, if you fubftitute for x the progreffion 1,
o, —1, there will be found amongft the divifors of the
fums that refult from thefe fubftitutions, one arithmetical
progreffion at leaft, whofe common difference will be unit
or a divifor tn of the coefficient of the higheft term, and
which will be the coefficient of x in the fimple divifor re¬
quired: and whofe term, arifing from the fuppofition
of x—o, will be n, the other member of the fimple di¬
vifor mx—n.
From which this rule is deduced for difcovering fuch
a fimple divifor, when there is any.
Rule. Subftitute for x in ,the propofed equation fuc¬
ceffively the numbers 1, cv—1. Find all the divi¬
fors of the fums that refult from this fubftitution, and
take out all the arithmetical progreffions you can find
amongft them, whofe difference is unit, or fome divi-
lor of the coefficient of the higheft term of the equa¬
tion. Then fuppofe n equal to that term of any one
progreffion that arifes from the fuppofition of x=o,
and m— the forefaid divifor of the coefficient of the
higheft term of the equation, which m is alfo the dif¬
ference of the terms of this progreffion; fo ffiall you
have mx—n for the divifor required.
You may find arithmetical progreffions giving divifors
that will not fucceed; but if there is any divifor, it will
be found thus by means of thefe arithmetical progreffions.
If the equation propofed has the coefficient of its
higheft term =1, then it will be «=i, and the divifor
will be x—«, and the rule will coincide with that given
in the end of the laft chapter, which we demonftrated
after a different manner; for the divifor being x—n, the
value of x will be -\-n, the term of the progreffion that
is a divifor of the fum that arifes from fuppofing x~o.
Of this cafe we gave examples in the laft chapter; and
though it is eafy to reduce an equation whofe higheft
term has a coefficient different from unit, to one where
that coefficient ffiall be unit, by p. 106. col. 1. par. 6.;
yet, without that reduction, the equation may be refolved
by this rule, as in the following
Exam?.
B
A.
A L G E
R
1 *5
Examp. Suppofe 8jc5—a6xl-}-i uc-fio =o, and
that it is required to find the values of x; the operation
is thus;
S uppof. [ Refults. \Divifors.\Progr.
* = ij C + 3[i.3- 3 3
* = o8x} — 26x*+iix+io—j+101,2,5,10. 2 5
x——i j  6—35lM>7>35 I 7
The difference of the terms of the lafl arithmetical
progrefilon is 2, a divifor of 8, the coefficient of the
higheft term x3 of the equation, therefore fuppofing
m—2, we try the divifor 2X—j ; which fucceed-
ing, it follows, that 2x—5=0, or x==2|-.
The quotient is the quadratic qx*—3X—2=0, whofe
roots are , and fo that the three
roots of the propofed equation are 2x> idr+'jLI r
3—a/41
1 8 V
The other arithmetical progreffion gives
x+2 for a divifor ; but it does not fucceed.
If the propofed equation has no fimple divifor, then
we are t® inquire if it has not fome quadratic divifor
(ifitfelf is an equation of more than three dimenfions.)
An equation having the divifor ?nxl—>-«x+r maybe
expreffed, as in the firft article of this chapter, by
EY.tnx'1 ■— nx + r 5 and if we fubfiitute for x any known
quantitythe fum that will refult willhave ma1—na-\-r
for one of its divifors; and, if we fubftitute fucceffively
for x the progreffion a, a—e, a—2tf, a—3?, &C. tire
fums that arife from this fubftitution will have
ma'1—na-\-r
m'Aa—<A *—-nY.a — ?+r
 eel *—n'Xa—2g+r
m'Aa—y 2—n'Aa—y-\-r,
&c.
4W—2»+r
m—»+r
 +r
m + « + r, which fubtra&ed from qw,
vi, o, m, leave 2«—r
—n—r, an arithmetical progreffion
whofe difference is +»; and whofe term, arifing from
the fubftitution of o for x, is —r.
From which it follows, that by this operation, if the
propofed equation has a quadratic divifor, you will find
an arithmetical progreffion that will determine to yoa n
and r, the coefficient m being fuppofed known ; fince it
is unit, or a divifor of the coefficient of the higheft terra
of the equation. Only you are to obferve, that if the
firft term vixx of the quadratic divifor is negative, then
in order to obtain an arithmetical progreffion, you are
not to fubtradt, but add the divifors — qt// — 2« + r,
—m—#+r, +r, —«+«+/•, to the terms qw, m, o, m.
The general rule therefore, deduced from what we
had faid, is,
“ Subftitute in the propofed equation for x the terms
“ 2, 1, o, —1, <bc. fucceffively. Find all the divifors
“ of the fums that refuk, adding and fubtradling them
“ from the fquares of thefe numbers 2, 1,0, —1, <bc.
“ multiplied by a numerical divifor of the higheft terra
“ of the propofed equation, and take out all the arith-
“ metical progreffions that can be found amongft thefe
“ fums and differences. Let r be that term in any
“ progreffion that arifes from the fubftitution of x~ot
“ and let be the difference arifing from fubtra&ing
“ that term from the preceding term in the progreffion ;
“ laftly, let m be the forefaid divifor of the highefl
“ term; then flrall mx'lz±±»x—r be the divifor that
“ ought to be tried.” And one one or other of the di¬
vifors found in this manner will fucceed, if the propofed
equation has a quadratic divifor.
among their divifors refpeftively.
Thefe terms are not now, as in the laft cafe, in arith¬
metical progreffion ; but if you fubtrad them from the
fquares of the terms a, a—e, a—2c, a—3c, &c. mul¬
tiplied by m a divifor of the higheft term of the propo-.
fed equation, that is from
via*
ntY.a—e 1
mXa—;* 2
mYa—3«V» the remainders.
nXa—e-—r
nXa—zc—r
w+^—3 c—r, &c. (hall be in arithmetical
progreffion, having their common difference equal to »Xc.
If, for example, we fuppofe the affumed progreffion
a> a—c. a—2f, a—31?, &c. to be 2, I, o, —x, the di¬
vifors will be
Chap. XXI. Of the Methods by which you
may approximate to the Roots of Numeri¬
cal Equations by their Limits.
When any equation is propofed to be refclved, firft
find the limits of the roots (by chap. 17.) as for ex¬
ample, if the roots of the equation x2—i6x+5j=o
are required, you find the limits are o, 8, and 17, by
p. 110. col. 2. par. 2.; that is,, the leaft root is between
o and 8, and the greateft between 8 and 17.
In order to find the firft of the roots, I confider, that
if I fubftitute o for x in a 2—16X+55, the refult is pofi-
tive, viz. +55, and confequently any number betwixt
c and 8 that gives a pofitive refult, muft be lefs than the
l?aft root, and any number that gives a negative refult
muft be greater. Since o and 8 are the limits, I try
q, that is, .the mean betwixt them, and fuppofing
x = q, x2—i6x+55=i6—6q+55=7, from which I
conclude that the root is greater than q. So that now
we have the root limited between 4 and 8. Therefore
I
n6 ALGEBRA.
I next try 6, and fubfHtuting'itfor x we find .v*—i6x+
55—36—96+55——5 ; which refult being negative, I
conclude that 6 is greater than the root required, which
therefore is limited now between 4 and 6. And fubfti-
tuting 5, the mean between them, in place of x, I find
**—i6x+55=25—80+55=05 and confequently 5 is
the lead: root of the equation. After the fame manner
you will difcover 11 to be the greateft root of that equa¬
tion.
Thus by diminifliing the greater, or increafmg the
leffer limit, you may difcover the true root when it is a
commenfurable quantity. But, by proceeding after this
manner, when you have two limits, the one'greater than
the root, the other lefier, that differ from one another
but by unit, then you may conclude the root is incom-
tnenfurable.
We may however, by continuing the operation in
fra&ions, approximate to it. As if the equation propofed
is xz — 6x + 7=o, if we fuppofe" x = 2, the refult is
4—12+7=—1, which being negative, and the fuppofi-
tion x—o giving a pofitive refult, it follows that the root
is between o and 2. Next we fuppofe x—i ; whence
pc'1—6x+7=i—6+7=+2, which being pofitive, we in¬
fer the root is betwixt 1 and 2, and confequently in-
commenfurable. In order to approximate to it, we fup¬
pofe x—ii, and find x1 — 6.v + 7=2^ — 9+7 = ^-; and
this refult being pofitive, we infer the root mud be be¬
twixt 2 and i^. And therefore we try i-|., and find
6x+7=4S—+7=3tV—i°t?b+7:=—rV> which
is negative ; fo that we conclude the root to be betwixt
and 1+ And therefore we try next 1^-, which gi¬
ving alfo a negative refult, we conclude the root is be¬
twixt 14 (or i£) and i^-. We try therefore and
the refult being pofitive, we conclude that the root mud
be betwixt iT9g- and i5+, and therefore is nearly i-ff.
Or you may approximate more eafily by transforming
the equation propofed into another whofe roots fhall be
equal to 10, 100, or 1000 times the roots of the for¬
mer, by p. 106. col. 1. par. 4. and taking the limits
greater in the fame proportion. This transformation
is eafy; for you are only to multiply the 2d term by
10, 100, or 1000, the 3d term by their fquares, the
4th by their cubes, The equation of the lad ex¬
ample is thus transformed into x1—6oox+7oooo=o,
whofe roots are 100 times the roots of the propofed e-
quation, and whofe limits are 100 and 200. Proceed¬
ing as before, we try 150, and find x*—6oox+7oooo=
22500—90000+70000=2500, fo that 150 is lefs than
the root. You next try 175, which giving a negative
refult mud be greater than the root: and thus proceed¬
ing, you find the root to be betwixt 158 and 159 : from
which you infer, that the lead root of the propofed equa¬
tion x2—6x+7=0 is betwixt 1.58 and 1.59, being the
hundredth part of the root of x1—6oox+7oooo=o.
If the cubic equation x3—I5x*+63*—50=0 is pro¬
pofed to be refolved, the equation of the limits will be
(by p. 110. col. 2. par. 2.) 3 A—3Qx+63=o, or x*—iox
+21=0, whofe roots are 3, 7 ; and by fubllituting o for
x, the value of x3—i^x2-\-6^x—50 is negative; and by
fubdituting 3 for x, that quantity becomes pofitive.
x=i gives it negative, and x=2 gives it pofitive, fo that
the root is between 1 and 2, and therefore incommen-
furable. You may proceed as in the foregoing examples
to approximate to the root. But there are other me¬
thods by which you may do that more eafily and readi¬
ly; which we proceed to explain.
When you have difcovered the value of the root to be
lefs than an unit (as, in this example, you know it is a
little above 1), fuppofe the difference betwixt its real
value and the number that you have found nearly equal
to it, to be reprefented by f: as in this example. Let
x = 1 +y. Subditute this value for x in the equation*
thus,
I+3/+3/M-/3
—i 5x1=—15— 30/--1 y/1
+ 63*= 63+63/
—50=—50
xs—i5xt,+63x—50=—1+36/-—i2/*+/3=o.
Now becaufe / is fuppofed lefs than unit, its powers
/%/3, may be neglefted in this approximation; fo
that affuming only the two fird. terms, we have •— 1 +
36/=©, or /=1is. = .o2 7; that * will be nearly
1.027.
You may have a nearer value of x by confitiering, that
feeing —1+36/—i2/*+/3=o, it follows that
36—12/+/3
= (by fubdituting for /)
= -3'54tt--->028o3.
/=
nearly = -, - , . , _
36 i2XT3-+T?rXTS-
But the value of / may be corrected and determi¬
ned more accurately, by fuppofing g to be the difference
betwixt its real value and that which we lad found
nearly equal to it. So that /=.028o3+£. Then by
fubdituting this value for / in the equation
/3-—12/1+36/—i=o, it will dand as follows,
/3 = 0.0000220226+ 0.002357^ + 0.08409^*+g'3
 12/1 =■—.009428x6 —^0.67272^—I2g'1
+ !(>/= 1.00908 +36^
=—0.0003261374+35.329637^—ii.9i95^1+ir3=o.
Of which the fird two terms, neglefting the red, give
35.329637Xp=o.o°0326i374, and^re.^EHii^Jli^
35.329637
0.00000923127. So that/=o.02So3923i27 ; and
x=i+/==i.o28o3923I27 ; which is very near the true
root of the equation that was propofed.
If dill a greater degree of exadtnefs is required, fup¬
pofe h equal to the difference betwixt the true value of£
and
117
ALGEBRA.
and that we have already found, and proceeding as a-
bove you may correct the value of g.
It is not only one root of an equation that can be ob¬
tained by this method, but, by making ufe of the other
limits, you may difcover the other roots in the fame
manner. The equation of p. 116. col. 2. par. 1. x3—
I5*1+63x1—50=0, has for its limits o, 3, 7, 50. We
have already found the leaft root to be'nearly 1.028039.
If it is required to find the middle root, you proceed in
the fame manner to determine its neareft limits to be
6 and 7; for 6 fubftituted for x gives a pofitive, and 7
a negative refult. Therefore you may fuppofe 1=6-h/l
and by fubftituting this value for x in that equation,
you find P+tf'—9/H-4=o, fo that nearly. Or,
fince f—
4
9-3/—/*’
it is (by fubftituting ^ for f)
f—   \—7-5- — {-5T> whence x=6+^-!4 nearly. Which
value may ftill be corrected as in the preceding articles.
After the fame manner you may approximate to the value
of the higheft root of the equation.
“ In all thefe operations, you will approximate fooner
“ to the value of the root, if you take the three laft
“ terms of the equation, and extradl the root of the
" quadratic equation confiding of thefe three terms.”
Then, in p. 116. col. 2. par. 2. inftead of the two
laft terms of the equation P — i2P-\-‘3,6f—1=0, if
you take the three laft, and extraft the root of the
quadratic 12P—you will find /=.628o3i,
which is much nearer the true value than what you dif¬
cover by fuppofing —i=o.
It is obvious that this method extends to all equations.
“ By afluming equations affedted with general coeffi-
“ cients, you may, by this method, deduce general
** rules or theorems for approximating to the roots of
“ propofed equations of whatever degree.”
Chap. XXII. Of the Rules for finding the
Number of impojfible Roots in an Equation.
The number of impojjiblc roots in an equation may,
for moft part, be found by this
by the firft, and the third by the fecond, and place
the quotients -j- and -f, over the middle terms in this
manner,
T T
*3+/>v2+3/’^'—7=0
+ — + +
Then becaufe the fquare of the fecond term multiplied
into the fradirion that ftands over it, that is, ^Yp1x‘'t is
lefs than 3/11 a4 the redtangle under the firft and third
terms, I place under the fecond term the fign —: but as
(=3/>4x*) the fquare of the third term multi¬
plied into its fradtion is greater than nothing, and con-
fequently much greater than—pqx1, the negative pro-
dudt of the adjoining terms, I write under the third term
the fign I write -j- likewife under x3 and —q the
firft and laft terms ; and finding in the figps, thus mark¬
ed, two changes, one from -f- to —, and another from
— to +, I conclude the equation has two impoffible
roots.
When two or more terms are wanting in the equation,
under the firft of fuch terms place the fign —, under the
fecond +, under the third —, and fo on alternately; on¬
ly when the two terms to the right and left of the defi¬
cient terms have contrary figns, you are always to write
the fign under the laft deficient term.
As in the equations
xs+ax* * * * -\-as—o
+ + — d +
and xs+ax* * * * —a3=o
+ + — -f + +
the firft of which has four impoflible roots, and the 0-
ther two.
Hence too we may difcover if the imaginary roots lie
hid among the affirmative, or among the negative roots.
For the figns of the terms which ftand over the figns be¬
low that change from -1- to —, and — to -K (hew, by
the number of their variations, how many of the impoffi-'
ble roots are to be reckoned affirmative; and that there
are as many negative imaginary roots as there are repeti¬
tions of the fame fign.
As in the equation
Rule. Write down a feries of fractions whofe deno¬
minators are the numbers in this prOgreflion, 1, 2, 3,
4, 5. fac. continued to the number which expref-
fes the dimenfion of the- equation. Divide every
fraftion in the feries by that which precedes it, and
place the quotients in order oyer the middle terms of
the equation. And, if the fquare of any term mul¬
tiplied into the fraftion that ftands over it gives a
produdt greater than the reftangle of the two adjacent
terms, write under the term the fign but if that
product is not greater than the rectangle. Write—;
and the figns under the extreme terms being +, there
will be as many imaginary roots as there are changes
of the figns from -{- to —, and from — to +.
Thus, the given equation being x3-(-/v* + 3/>*x —
g = o, 1 divide the fecond fraction of the feries -l, y,
Vol. I. No. 5. 3
xs—4x4-{-4x3—2x*—jx—4~o
+ + — + + +
the figns ( H •—) of the terms —4x4 + 4x3 — 2x*
which ftand over the figns ft H pointing out two affir¬
mative roots, we infer that two impoffible roots lie a-
mong the affirmative : and the three changes of the
figns in the equation (fi- [ ) giving three
affirmative roots and two negative, the five roots will
be one real affirmative, two negative, and two imagi¬
nary affirmatives. If the equation had been
xs—4X4—4X1—2x2—jx—4=0
+ +- — + +
the terms—4X4—-4X3 that ftand over the frft varia¬
tion -j , fiiew by the repetition of the fign —, that
one imaginary root is to be reckoned negative, and the
■j- G g terms
n8 A L C
terms —2\1 — $x that (land over the lafi: variation
i 1-, give, for the fame reafon, another negative
impoffible root ; fo that the 'figns of the equation
(-j —) giving one affirmative root, we con-
A L H
ALGENEB, a fixed ffiir of the fecond magnitude on
the right ffioulder of Perfeus. See Perseus.
ALGHER, or Algeri, a city on the north-weft coaft
of the ifland of Sardinia, fituated in £. long. 8° 4c/,
and N. lat. 410 30 .
ALGIABARII, among the Mahometans, the name of
a fed of predeftinarians. See Predestination.
ALGIERS, a kingdom of Africa, iituated between
30° and 370 of N. lat. and between i° W. and
90 E. long. It is bounded by the Mediterranean on
the north, by the kingdom of Tunis on the eaft, by
mount Atlas on the Touth, and by the river Mulvia,
which feparates it from the empire of Morocco, on
the weft; extending 600 miles, from eaft to weft, a-
. long the Babary coaft.
The Turks, who are mafters of this kingdom, are
but few in number in comparifon of the Moors, or
natives, who have no ffiare in the government. The
Arabs, who live in tents, are diftind from either. The
dey of Algiers is an abfolute, ’ though, an eledive mo¬
narch. He is chofen by the Turkiffi foldiers only,
and is frequently depofed, or even put to death by
them.
Algiers is alfo the name of the capital of the above-
mentioned kingdom, fituated near the mouth of the
the river Safran, on- the Mediterranean fea, oppofite
to the ifland of Majorca; its E. long, being 30 21',
and its N. lat. 36° 4c/.
ALGOIDES, in botany. See Zannichellia.
ALGOL, the name of a fixed ftar of the third magni¬
tude in the conflellatiop Perfeus, otherwife called Me-
d ufa’s head. See Astronomy, Of the fixed Jlars.
ALGONQUIN, one of the two principal languages
fpoken in N. America, viz. from the river of St Lau¬
rence to that of Mifliffippi; the other which is called
Haron, being fpoken in Mexico.
ALGOR, with phyficians, an unufual coldnefs in any
part of the body.
ALGORITHM, and arable word exrreflive of nume¬
rical computation. See Arithmetic, Chap. I.
ALGOSAREL, in botany, an obfolete name of the
daucus. See Daucus.
ALGUAZIL, in the Spaniffi policy, an officer whofe
bufinefs it is to fee the decrees of a judge .executed.
ALHAGI, in botany, the trivial name of a fpecies of
hedvfarum: See Hydes arum.
ALHAMA, a fpaall town of Granada in Spain, fur-
rounded with hills, and fituated about twenty-five
miles W. of Granada, W. long. 40, N. lat. 370.
ALHANDAL, among Arabian phyficians, a name ufed
for colocynth. See Colocynth.
ALHEAL, in botany. See Galeopsis, Stachys.
: B R A.
elude that of the four negative roots' two are imaginary.
This always holds good, unlefs, which fometirnes
may happen, “ there are more impoffible roots in the
“ equation than are difcoverable by the rule.”
A L I
ALKENNA, in botany, a fynonime of the Lawfonia,
See Lawsonia.
ALHIDADE, or Alidade, a term of Arabic origin,
fignifying the index or diopter of a mathematical io-
ftrument for taking heights and diftances. See Di¬
opter.
ALJAMEIA, the name by which the Morifcoes of
Spain called the Spaniffi language.
ALICANT, a large fea-port town of Spam, in the
province of Valencia, with a very ftrong caftle. It,
is fituated in W. long. 0,6', and N lat. 38° .
ALTCATA, a mountain of Sicily, near the valleys
Mazara and Note, upon which was fituated (as is ge¬
nerally thought) the famous Dacdalion, where the ty¬
rant Phalaris kept his brazen bull.
ALICE, a cape of the Hither Calabria in the kingdom
of Naples, called in Latin Alicium gromontorhun.
.ALICES, an obfolete name of the fpots that precede
the eruption of the fmall-pox.
ALICULA, in Roman antiquity, a kind of chlamys
wor • by children, which fome call tunica maricati.
ALICUR, a very fmall ifland in the Tufcan fea, about
fifteen miles weft from the Lipari, on the coaft of Sicily.
ALIDADE See Alkidade.
ALIDES, among the Mahometans, a defignation given
to the defeendents of Ali; between whom and the
Ommiades, there was a warm difpute about the kali*
phate See Kaliphate.
ALJEMBUT, in botany, an obfolete name of a fpecies
of mimofa. See Mimosa.
ALIBI, in Scots law; when a perfon ptirfued for the
commiffion of a crime, libelled to have been commit¬
ted at a certain place, and upon a certain day, proves
in his defence, that he was elfewhere at the time li¬
belled, he is faid to have proved alibi. See Law,
tit. Cdimes.
ALIEN, in Scots law, a perfon who owes allegiance
to a foreign prince; and who, on that account, can¬
not hold any feudal right in Scotland without being
naturalized. See Law, title, Conftilution of heritable
rights.
Alien duty, an impoft laid on all goods imported by &-
liens, over and above the cuftoms paid for fuch goods
imported by Britifh, and on Britifli bottoms.
priories, a kind of inferior monafteries, formerly
very numerous in England, and fo called from their
belonging to foreign abbeys.
ALIENABLE, denotes fomething that may be aliena¬
ted. See Alienation.
ALIENATION, in law, denotes the aft of making 0-
ver a man’s property in land, tenements, <bc. to an¬
other perfon,
Alie-
A L I ( up
Aj-ienAtion, in mortmain, is making over lands, te¬
nements, &c. to a body politic, or to a religious
houfe, for which the king’s licence mufl: firft be ob¬
tained, otherwife the lands, &C. alienated will be
forfeited. See Mortmain.
ALIFANUS, in botany, a fynonime of the rhexia. See
Rhexia.
ALIFORMIS, in anatomy, the name of a pair of muf-
cles. See Anatomy, Part II.
Aeiformis proceJfus, tht name given by fome to the
prominencies of the cs cuneiforme. See Anatomy,
Part I.
ALIMA, a kind of fand found in gold mines, of which
they make lead.
ALIMENT, whatever promotes the growth or nourilh-
. ment of animal or vegetable bodies. See Food.
Obligation of Aliment, in Scots law, the natural obli¬
gation on parents to provide thdk children with the
necefl'aries of life, <tc. See Law, titles, Marriage,
and Obligations and contrails in general.
ALIMENTARY, an epithet for every thing that be¬
longs to aliment or food.
Alimentary debt, in Scots law, an obligation come
under by one perlon to pay a certain fum annually for
the maintenance of another, either gratuitoufly, in
confideration of a fum of money funk, or by way of
wages; See Lav/, title, Arrejhnent and poinding.
Alimentary children, in Roman antiquity, an apeila-
tion given to thofe educated in houfes not unlike our
hofpitals.
Alimentary law, amorig the Romans, that whereby
children were obliged to maintain their aged parents.
ALIMENTATION, a term ufed by fome writers, par¬
ticularly Lord Bacon, for what is commonly called
nutrition. See Nutrition.
ALIMONY, inlaw. Obligation of Alwiukt.
ALIMOS, in botany, an obfolete name of the glycir-
• rhiza. See Glycirrhiza.
ALIOS-BATON, in ichthyology, an obfolete name of
a fpecies of rana or frog. See Rana.
ALIPILAR.IUS, or Alipilus, in Roman antiquity,
a fervant belonging to the baths, whofe bufinefs it was,
by means of waxen platters, and an inttrument called
xolfella, to take off the hairs from the arm-pits, and
, even arms, legs, tec. this being deemed a point of
• cleanlinefs.
ALiPTA, in Grecian antiquity. See Iatraliptra.
ALIPTERIUM, in the ancient gymnafia, the fame with
eltsothettum. SccEl^othesium.
ALIPOW mantis ceti, a kind of white turbith, found
.in LanguedoCi uled as a purgative. See Turbith.
ALIQU ANT parts, thofe parts which one number can¬
not meafure. See Arithmetic.
ALIQUOT parts, thofe parts which one number can
meafure. See Arithmetic.
ALISE, or Alize, almall town of France, in the di-
-ftridl of Auxois.
Alise, orEnsE, is a fmall ifland in the Irifli fea, not
. far from the mull of Galloway.
ALISMA, in botany, a genus of the hexandria polygy-
n:a ciafs. The chara&ers of the alifma are thefe.
) A. L L
The calix confifts of three pieces or leaves; the flower
has three petals ; and the feeds are numerous. There
are feven fpecies of this plant, viz. the plantago, or
great water-plantain, which grows in all the marlhy
parts of this country; the ranunculoides, or leffer wa¬
ter-plantain; the natans, or creeping water-plantain;
the damafonium, or liar-headed water-plantain; all
of which are natives of Britain : the flava, cordifolia,
and fubulata, are natives of America.
ALITES, in Roman antiquity, a defignation given to-
fuch birds as afforded matter of auguries by their flight;
in which fenfe they are contradiftinguilhed from thofe
czWzi ofeines. See Oscines.
ALIZE, in geography. See Alise.
ALKA, in ornithology. See Alca.
ALKAHEST, or Alcahest, in chemiftry, an univer-
fal mcnftruum’vcapable of refolving all bodies into their
firft principles. Van Helmont pretended he was pof-'
feffed of fuch a menttruum; but, however credulous
people might be impofed on in his days, the notion is
now become as ridiculous as the philolophers ftone, the
perpetuum mobile, fjc. It is likewife ufed by fbme
authors for all fixed falts volatilized.
ALKAHESTIC, an epithet applied to all powerful men-
ftruums.
ALKALI, in chemiftry, a name for all fubftances which
ferment with acids. See Chemistry, Of Alkalis,
or alkaline fubjlances. Alkali originally fignified only
the fait of the kali.
ALKALINE, an epithet for every body which pcflefTes
any of the qualities of an alkali.
ALKALIZATION, in chemiftry, the impregnating‘any
liquor v/ith alkaline bodies.
ALKALY. See Alkali.
ALKANET, in botany, the Englifh name of the an-
- chufa. See Anchusa.
ALKEKENGI, in botany, a fynonime of feveral fpe¬
cies of the atropa and phyfalis; it is alfo the trivial
name of a fpecies of the phyfalis. See Physalis,
and Atropa.
ALKERMES, in pharmacy, a compound cordial medi¬
cine made in the form of a confediion. The principal
ingredient is the kermes. See Kermes.
ALKIN, a city of Arabia Felix, feven days journey, S.
from Mecca.
ALKOOL. See Alcohol.
ALKY of lead, a fv/eet fubftance obtained by the che-
mifts from lead.
ALL-HALLOWS, the fume with All-faints. See the
next article
ALL-SAINTS, a feftival obferved by moft denomina¬
tions of Chriftians, in commemoration of all the faints
in general. It is kept on the firft of November.
All-saints bay, or baiha de tndos fancies, a fpacious
harbour near St Salvador in Brazil, in S. America,
on the Atlantic Ocean, W. long. 40°, S. lat. 120.
ALL-SOULS, a feftival kept in commemoration of all
the faithful deceafed, on the fecond of November.
ALLA, or Ali ah, the name by which all the profef-
fors of Mahometanifm call the Supreme Being.
'The term alia is Arabic, derived from the verb alah,
to
A L‘ L ( 12.
. to adore. It is die fame with the Hebrew eloah, which
{ignities the adorable Being.
ALLANTOIS, or Allantoides, a gut-fhaped veficle
inverting the foetus of cows, goats, flieep, &c. filled
with a liquor conveyed to it from the urachus.
ALLAY. See Alloy.
ALLEGATA, in Roman antiquity, a kind of fubfcrip-
tion ufed by the emperors, importing the writings to be
verified.
ALLEGATION, in matters of literature, is the quo-,
ting an author in regard to the fubject in hand.
ALLEGIANCE, in law, denotes the obedience which
every fubjeft owes to his lawful fovereign.
Oatb of Allegiance, in the Britifn policy, that taken
in acknowledgment of the king as a temporal prince;
as the oath of fupremacy acknowledges him for the
fupreme head of the church.
ALLEGORICAL, a term applied to whatever belongs
to, or partakes of, the nature of an allegory. See
Allegory.
ALLEGORIST, one who deals in allegories: fuch
were many of the Chriftian fathers.
ALLEGORY, in compofition, confifts in chufing a fe-
. condary fubjeft, having all its properties and circum-
ftances refembling thofe of the principal fubjedt, and
defcribing the former in fuch a manner as to reprefent
the latter. The principal fubjedt is thus kept out of
view, and we are left to difcoyer it by refledtion. In
other words, an allegory is, in every refpedt, fimilar to
an hieroglyphical painting, excepting only that words
are ufed inltead of colours. Their effedts are precife-
ly the fame: An hieroglyphic raifes two images in the
mind; one feen, that reprefents one that is not feen :
An allegory does the fame ; the reprefentativ'e fubjedt
is defcribed; and the refemblance leads us to apply
the defcription to the fubjedt reprefented. «•
There cannot be a finer or more corredt allegory
than the following, in which a vineyard is made to re¬
prefent God’s own people the Jews
“ Thou haft brought a vine out of Egypt; thou .
“ haft caft out the heathen, and planted it. Thou
“ didft caufe it to take deep root, and it filled the
“ land. The hills were covered with its ftiadow, and
“ the boughs thereof were like the goodly cedars.
“ Why haft thou then broken down her hedges, fo
“ that all that pafs do pluck her ? The boar out of
“ the wood doth wafte it, and the wild beaft doth de-
“ vour it. Return, we befeech thee, O God of hofts:
“ look down from heaven, and behold, and vi(it this
“ vine and the vineyard thy right hand hath planted,
“ and the branch thou madeft ftrong for thyfelf.”
Pfal. Ixxx.
Nothing gives greater pleafure than an allegory,
when the reprefentative fubj'eft bears a ftrong analogy,
in all its circumftances, to that which is reprefented.
But moft writers are unlucky in their choice, the ana-
logy being generally fo faint and obfcure, as rather to
puzzle than to pleafe. Allegories, as well as meta¬
phors and fimilies, are unnatural in expreffing any fe-
vere paffion which totally occupies the mind. For
this reafon, the following fpeech of Macbeth is juftly
5 ) ALL
condemned by the learned author of the Elements of
Criticifm:
Methought I heard a voice cry, Sleep no more !
Macbeth doth murther Sleep ; the innocent fleep;
Sleep that knits up the ravell’d fleeve of Care,
The birth of each day’s life, fore Labour’s bath,
Balm of hurt minds, great Nature’s fecond courfe.
Chief nouriftier in life’s feaft. Aft ii. Sc. 3.
ALLEGRO, in mufic, an Italian word, denoting that
the part is to be played in a fprightly, briik, lively,
and gny manner.
Piu Allegro, fignifies, that the part it is joined to
(hould be fung or played quicker; as
Poco piu Allegro, intimates, that the part to which it
refers, ought to be played or fung only a little more
brifkly than allegro alone requires.
ALLEGRET. See Alegrette.
ALLELENGYON, in antiquity, a tax paid by the rich
for the poor, when abfent in the army.
ALLELOPHAGI, a term ufed by fome authors for a
kind of flies which are faid to feed upon each other.
ALLELUJAH, in botany, an obfolete name for the
oxys. SeeOxYs.
Allelujah, among ecclefiaftical writers. See Hal¬
lelujah.
ALLEMAND, a fort of grave folemn mufic, with good
meafure, and a flow movement. It is alfo a briflc
kind of dance, very common in Germany and Swit¬
zerland.
ALLEMANNIC, in a general fenfe, denotes any thing
belonging to the ancient Germans. Thus, we meet
with Allemannic hiftory, Allemannic language, Ai-
lemannic law, foe.
ALLENDORF, a little city in the Landgravate of
Hefle-Caflel in Germany, fituated upon the river We-
fer; E. long. io°, N. lat. 510 3G/,
ALLER, a river which runs through the Dutchy of
Lunenburg, and falls into the Wefer, a little below
Verden.
Aller, or Alder, a term ufed in our old writers to
denote the fuperlative degree. Thus, aller-good fig¬
nifies the greateft good,
ALLERION, or Alerion, in heraldry, a fort of eagle
without beak or feet, having nothing perfeft but the
wings. They differ from martlets by having their
wings expanded, whereas thofe of the martlet are
clofe; and denote imperialifts vanquiftied and difarm-
ed ; for which reafon they are more common in French
than in German coats of arms.
ALEU, or Allode. See Allodial, and Allo¬
dium
ALLEVIARE, in old records, fignifies to levy or raife
an accuftomed fine or impofition.
ALLEVIATION, is the aft of making a thing lighter,
or more eafy to be borne.
ALLEVEURE, a fmall brafs Swedifh coin, worth a-
bout 2^. Englifti money.
ALLEY, in gardening, a rtraight parallel walk, bound¬
ed on both fides with trees, fhrubs, foe, and ufually
covered with gravel or turf.
Covered
Covered Alls'/, that over which the branches of trees
meeting, form a {hade.
Alley of compartment, that which divides the fquares
of a parterre. See Parterre.
Alley, among builders, denotes a narrow paflage lead¬
ing from one place to another.
Alley, in perfpe&ive, that which, in order to have a
greater appearance of length, is made wider at the en¬
trance than at the termination.
ALLIANCE, in the civil and canon law, the relation
contracted between two perfons or two families by
marriage.
Alliance is alfo ufedfor a treaty entered into byfove-
reign princes and Hates, for their mutual fafety and
defence.
) ALL
In this fenfe, alliances may be diHingui/hed into
fuch as are offenfive, whereby the contracting parties
oblige themfelves jointly to attack fome other power;
and into defenfive ones, whereby they bind themfelves
to Hand by and defend each other, in cafe they are at¬
tacked by others.
Alliance, in a figurative fenfe, is applied to any kind
of union or connection: thus we fay, there is an alli¬
ance between the church and Hate.
ALLIGATI, in Roman antiquity, the bafefi: kind of
flaves, who were ufually kept fettered. See Slave.
ALLIER, a river of France, which, arifing in Langue¬
doc, waters part of Auvergne and Bourbonnois, and
falls into the Loire, a little below Nevers.
ALLIGATION.
A LLIGATION, the name of a method of folving
all queftions that relate to the mixture of one in¬
gredient with another. Though writers on arithmetic
generally make alligation a branch of that fcience; yet,
as it is plainly nothing more than an application of the
common properties of numbers, in order to folve a few
queftions that occur in particular branches of bufinefs,
we chufe rather to keep it diftinCi from the fcience of
arithmetic.
Alligation is generally divided into medial or alter¬
nate.
I. Alligation Medial.
Alligation medial, from the rates and quantities of the
limples given, difcovers the rate of the mixture.
Rule. As the total quantity of the fimples,
To their price or value ;
So any quantity of the mixture,
To the rate.
Examp. A grocer mixeth 30 lb. of currants, at
4d. per lb. with 10 lb. of other currants, at 6d, per
lb : What is the value of 1 lb. of the mixture. Anf.
4t<L
lb. d. d.
30, at 4 amounts to 120
10, at 6 60
40 180
lb. d. lb. d.
If 40 : 180 :: 1.: 4^
Note 1. When the quantity of each fimple is the
fame, the rate of the mixture is readily found by adding
the rates of the fimples, and dividing their fom by the
number of fimples, thus.
Suppofe a grocer mixes feveral forts of fugar, and of
Vol. I. No. 6. 3
each an equal quantity, viz. at $0 s. at 54 s. and at
60 s. per Cwt. the rate of the mixture will be 54 s. 8 d.
per Cwc.; for,
/. s. d.
50+54+60=164, and 3)164(54 8
Note 2. If it be required to increafe or diminifh the
quantity of the mixture, fay, As the fum of the given
quantities of the fimples,, to the feveral quantities given ;
fo the quantity of the mixture propofed, to the quanti¬
ties of the fimples fought.
Note 3. If it be required to know how much of
each fimple is in an affigned portion of the mixture, fay.
As the quantity of the mixture, to the feveral quantities
of the fimples given ; fo the quantity of the afligned por¬
tion, to the quantities of the fimples fought. Thus,
Suppofe a grocer mixes 10 lb. of raifins, with 30 lb.
of almonds, and 40 lb. of currants, and it be demand¬
ed, how many ounces of each fort are found in every
pound, or in every fixteen ounces of fhe mixture, fay,
80 : 10 : : 16 : 2 raifins.
80 : 30 : : 16 : 6 almonds.
80 : 40 : : 16:8 currants.
Proof 16
Note 4. If the rates of two fimples, with the total
value and total quantity of the mixture be given, the
quantity of each fimple may be found as follows, viz.
multiply the lefler rate into the total quantity, fubtra<5fc
the produdt from the total value, and the remainder will
be equal to the produd of the excefs of the higher rate
above the lower, multiplied into the quantity of the high¬
er-priced fimple; and confequently the faid remainder,
divided by the difference of the rates, will quote the
faid quantity. Thus,
Suppofe a grocer has a mixture of 400 lb weight, that
coft him 7 1. xo s. confifting of raifins, at 4 d. per lb.
f H h and
122 A L L I G
and almonds at 6 d. how many pounds of almonds were
in the mixture ?
lb. Rates.
400 6 d.
L. s. d. 4 4
7 io=i3oo    
1600 i6ood. 2d.
   ^ L. s.
2)200(10016. of almonds at 6d. is, 2 10
And goo 16. of raifins, at 4d. is, 5 0
Total 400 Proof 7 10
II. Alligation Alternate.
Alligation alternate, being the converfe of alligation
medial, from the rates of the limples, and rate of the
mixture given, finds the quantities of thefimples.
R U L E S.
I. Place the rate of the mixture on the left fide of a
brace, as the root; and on the right fide of the brace fet
the' rates of the fereral fimples, under one another, as
the branches.
II. Link or alligate the branches, fo as one greater,
and another lefs than the root may be linked or yoked
together..
III. Set the difference betwixt the root and the fe¬
deral branches, right againii their refpedtive yoke-fel¬
lows. • Thefe alternate differences are the quantities re¬
quired.
Note 1. If any branch happen to have two or more
'yoke-fellows, the difference ketwixt the root and thefe
yoke- fellows mud be placed right againft the faid branch,
pne after another, and added into pne Aim.
Note 2. In fome queftions, the branches maybe al-
ligated more ways than one; and a queftion will always
admit of fo many anfwers, as there are different ways of
linking the branches.
Alligation .alternate admits of three varieties, viz.
1. The quenion may be unlimited, with refped both to
the quantity of the fimples, and that of the mixture.
2. The queftion may be limited to a certain quantity of
one or more of the fimples. 3. The queftion may be li¬
mited to a certain quantity of the mixture.
Variety I.
When the queft.ion is unlimited, with refpedt both to
the quantity of the fimpleSj and that of the mixture, this
is called Alligition Simple.
A T I O N.
fide of the brace, as the root; and on the right fide of
the fame brace are fet the rates of the feveral fimples,
viz. 5, 7, 10, under one another, as the branches;
according to Rule I.
Tlie branch 10 being greater than the root, is alligated
or linked with 7 and 5, both thefe being lefs than the
root; as directed in Rule II.
The difference between the root 8 and the branch j,
viz. 3, is fet right againft: this-branch’s yoke-fellow 10.
The difference between 8 and 7 is likewife fet right a-
gainft the yoke-fellow 10 And the difference betwixt
8 and 10, viz. 2, is fet right againft the two yoke-fel¬
lows 7 and 5 ; as prefcubedby Rule III.
As the branch 10 has two differences on the right, viz.
3 and 1, they are added ; and the anfwer to the queftion
is, that 2 16. at 5 d. 2 16. at 7 d. and 416. at 10 d. will
make the mixture required. (
The truth and reafon of the rules will appear by coji-
fidering, that whatever is loft Upon any one branch is
gained upcjft its yoke-fellow. Thus, in the above ex¬
ample, by felling 4 16. of 10 d. fugar at 8 d. per 16.
there is 8 d. loft: but the like fum is gained upon its
two yoke-fellows; fof by felling 2 16. of $ d. fugar at
8 d. per 16. there is 6 d. gained;, and by felling 2 16;
of 7 d. fugar at 8 d. there is 2 d. gained; and 6 d. and
2 d. make 8 d.
Hence it follows, that the rate of the mixture muft
always be mean or middle with refpedt to the rates of
the fimples; that is, it muft be lei's than the greateft,
and greater than the leaft; otherwife a folution would
be impoffible. And the price of the total quantity mix¬
ed, computed at the rate of the mixture, will always be
equal to the fum of the prices of the feveral quantities
call up at the refpedtive rates of the fimples.
Variety II.
When the queftion is limited to a certain quantity of
one or more of the fimples, this is called Alligation
Partial.
If the quantity of one of the fimples only be limited,
alligate the branches, and take their differences, as if
there had been no fuch limitation; and then work by the
following proportion.
As the difference right againft the rate of the fimple
wbofe quantity is given.
To the'other differences refpedtively;
So the quantity given,
To the feveral quantities fought.
Examp. A grocer would mix fugars, at 5 d. yd.
and 10 d. per .16 fo as to feil the mixture or compound
at 8 d. per 16 : What quantity of each mull lie take ?
lb.
Here the rate of the mixture 8 is placed on the left
Examp. A diftiller would, with 40 gallons of bran¬
dy at 12 s. per gallon, mix rum at 7 s. per gallon, and
gin at 4 s. per gallon: How much of the rum and gin
muft he take, to fell the mixture at 8 s. per gallon ?
Gal.
ffierrs 1, 4 | 5 I 40 of brandy.')
M 7^)4 ’ 4 32 of rum. C Anf.
C 4—^4 I 4 I 32 of gin. _>
The operation gives for anfwer, 5 gallons of brandy,
4 of
• A L L I G
jf of rum, arrd 4 of gin. But the qufftion limits the
quantity of brandy to 40 gallons; therefore fay.
If 5 : 4 :: 40 : 32
■. The quantity of gin, by the operation, being alfo 4,
the proportion needs not be repeated.
Variety III.
When the queflion is limited to. a certain quantity of
the mixture, this is called Alligation Total.
After linking the branches, and taking the differences,
work by the proportion following,
As the fum of the differences,
To each particular difference;
So the given total of the mixture,
To the refpeelive quantities required.
Examp. A vintner hath wine at 3 s. per gallon, and
ALL
ALLIGATOR, in zoology, a fynonime of the lacerta
, Crocodilus. See Lacerta.
ALLIGATOR-^-, in botany. See Pyrus.
ALLIONIA, in botany, a genus of the tetrandria mo-
nogynia clafs. The char afters of which are : The
common calix is oblong, limple, and three-flowered ;
the proper calix is above the fruit, and obfolete; the
corolla is irregular; and the receptacle without a-
ny covering. There are only twoTpecies of the alli-
onia, viz. the violacea, and incarnata, both natives
of America,
ALLIOTH, a liar in the tail of the greater bear, much
ufed for finding the latitude at fea.
ALLIUM garlick, in botany, a genus of the hexandria
monogynia clafs. The characters are : The corolla is
- Open, and divided into fix parts; the fpatha is multi¬
florous ; the -capfule is above the flower; and the
flowers are in the form of an umbell. There are no
lefs than 37 fpecies of the allium, only five of which,
viz. the ampeloprafum, or great round-headed gar-
lick ; the arenarium, or broad-leaved mountain-gar-
lick; the vineale, or crow-garlick; the oleraceum, or
wild garlick with an herbaceous ftriated flower ; and
the urfinttm, or ramfon, are natives of Britain. Al¬
lium is a powerful diuretic, and, along with honey,
■ has good effects in afthmas.
ALLOA, a port-town of Scotland, fituated on the ri¬
ver Forth, remarkable for the coal-mines in its heigh-
. bourhoed. W. long. 30 45', N. iat.. 56° iq\
ALLOCATION denotes the admitting or allowing of
an article of an account, efpecially in the exchequer.
Hence,
Allocatione facienda is a writ direfkd to the lord trea-
furer, or barons of the exchequer, commanding them
to allow an accountant fuch fums as he has lawfully
expended in the execution of his office.
ALLOCATO comitoiu, a new writ of exigent allow¬
ed, before any other county court held, on a former
not being complied with. See Exicen r.
A T I O N. 123
would mix it with water, fo as to make a compofitjon of
144 gallons, worth 2 s. 6 d. per gallon: How much
wine, and how much water mult he take l
Cal.
<■36x30 120 of wine. 7
3° To) 6 *4 of water.]
36 144 total.
120 X 36 = 4320
24 X o = o
Proof 144)4320(30
As 36 : 30 : : 144 : 120
As 36 : 6 : : 144 : 24
There being here only two fimples, and the total of
the mixture limited, the queltion admits but of one an-
fwer.
ALL
ALLOCUTION, in Roman antiquity, denotes an ha*
rangue made by a general to his army, frequently
mentioned on ancient medals.
ALLODIAL goods, inScots law, are fuch as are enjoyed
by the owner, independent of any other. Lands are
likewife faid to be allodial, when they are held with¬
out the neceflity of acknowledging a fuperior/ See
Law, title, Conjlitution of heritable rights.
ALLODIUM, or Alleud, denotes lands which are
the ablblute property of their, owner, without being
obliged to pay any fervice or acknowledgement what¬
ever to a fuperior lord.
ALLOGIA, a term found in old writers on military
affairs, for winter-quarters.
ALLOM. See Alum.
ALLONGE, in fencing, denotes a thrud or pafs at
the adverfary. See Pass.
ALLOPHYLLUS, in botany, a genus of the oftan-
dria monogynia clafs. The Charafters are : The calix.
is four leaved; the leaves are globular; the flower
confifts of four petals, lefs than the calix; and the
fiigma is forked. There is only one fpecies, which
is found in Zeylon.
ALLOTTING, or Allotment of goods, in com¬
merce, is the dividing a (hip’s cargo into feveral parts,
which are to be purchafed by feveral perfons-, whofe
names being written upon as many flips of paper, are
applied by an indifferent perfon to the feveral lots ; by
which means the goods are divided without partiality,
each man having the parcel upon which his name is
fixed
ALLOWANCES, at the cuflom houfe, to goods rated
, by weight, are two, viz. draught arid tare. See
Draught and Tare.
ALLOY, or Allay, a proportion of a bafer metal
mixed with a finer one. Thus all gold coin has an
alloy of filver and copper, as (liver coin has of copper
alone ; the proportion in the former cafe, for ftandard
gold, .being two carrats of alloy in a pound troy of
gold;
A I Z ( i
gold; and, in the latter, eighteen penny-weight of al¬
loy fora pound of filver.
ALLUM. See Alum.
ALUMNIOR, in fome of our old ftatutes, a perfon
whofe trade it is to colour, or paint upon paper or
parchment.
ALLUSION, in rhetoric, a figure by which fomething
is applied to, or underftood of another, on account of
fiome fimilitude between them.
ALLUVION, in law, denotes the gradual increafe of
land along the fea-lhore, or on banks of rivers. See
Law, title, Divifion of rights^
ALLY, in matters of polity, a fovereign prince or ftate
that has entered into alliance with others. See Al¬
liance.
ALMACANTARS. See Almucantars.
ALMACARRON, a port-town of Spain, in the pro¬
vince of Murcia, at the mouth of the Guadalentin ;
W. long. i° 15', N. lat. 370 4c/.
ALMADE, a town of Spain, in the province of la Man¬
cha, in the kingdom of Callile, fituated upon the top
of a mountain, where are the moft ancient, as well as
the richeft filver mines in Europe.
ALMADIE, a kind of canoe, or fmall veflel, about
four fathoms long, ufually made of bark, and ufed by
the negroes of Africa.
Almadie is alfo the name of a kind of long boats, fitted
out at Calicut, which are eighty feet in length, and
fix or feven in breadth. They are exceeding fwift,
and, are otherwife called cat bur i.
ALMAGEST, in matters of literature, is particularly
ufed for a colledtion or book compofed by Ptolemy,
containing various problems of the ancients both in
geometry and aftronomy.
Almagest is alfo the title of other colle&ions of this
kind. Thus, Riccioli has publilhed a book of aftro¬
nomy which he calls the New Almageft; and Plucke-
net, a book-which he calls Almagejhum Botanicum.
ALMAGRA, a fine deep red ochre. See Ochre.
ALMAN-FURNACE, the fame with almond-furnace.
See Almond-.
ALMANAC, in matters of literature, a table contain¬
ing the kalendar of days and months, the riling and
Petting of the fun, the age of the moon, <bc.
Regiomontanus is allowed to have been the firft who
reduced almanacs to their prefent form.
Confruttion of Almanacs. The firft thing to be done
is, to compute' the fun’s and moon’s place for each
day of the year, or it may be taken from fome ephe-
merides and entered in the almanac; next, find the
dominical letter, and, by means thereof, diftribute
the kalendar into weeks; then, having computed the
time of eafter, by it fix the other moveable feafts ;
adding the immoveable ones, with the names of the
martyrs, the riling and fetting of each luminary, the
length of day and night, the afpe&s of the planets,
the phafes of the moon, and the fun’s entrance into the
cardinal points of the ecliptic, i. e. the two equi¬
noxes and folftices.
ALMANDINE, a name given by ancient naturalifts .to
the carbuncle. See Carbuncle.
t4 ) ALA
ALMANZA, a little town in the province of New Ca-
ftile in Spain, remarkable for the defeat of the confe¬
derate army by the French, in 1707; W. long. i° i^,
N. lat. 390.
ALMARIA, a term found in fome ancient records for
the archives of a church, monaftery, and the like.
ALMARIC berefy, one broached in France in 1209,
the diftinguilhing tenet of which was, That no Chri-
ftian could be faved unlefs he believed himfelf to be a
member of Chrift.
ALMEDA, a town in the province of Beira in Por¬
tugal ; W. long. 9° 40', N. lat. 3S0 4c/’.
ALMEDIA, a frontier town in the province of Tra-
los Montes, in Portugal ; W. long. 70 10', N. lat.
40° 40 .
ALMEHRAB, in the Mahometan cuftoms, a nich in
their mofques, pointing towards the kebla or temple of
Mecca, to which they are obliged to bow in praying.
See Kebla.
ALMELILETU, a term ufed by Avifenna, for a pre¬
ternatural heat which fometimes remains after a fever
is gone.
ALMENE, in botany, an obfolete name of the lotus.
See Lotus.
Almene, in commetce, a weight of two pounds ufed to
weigh faffron in feveral parts of the continent of the
E. Indies.
Almendine, Almemdine, or Albandine, a fpecies
of ruby. See Ruby.
ALMERIA, a fea-port town of Spain in the kingdom
of Granada, fituated at the mouth of the river Almo-
ria, or Bolciduy,
ALMERY. SeeAMBERY.
ALMIGGIM-wW, is thought to be that of the Indian
pine-tree, which being light and white, was greatly
efteemed for making mufical inftruments.
ALMISSA, a city of Dalmatia, fubjedt to the Vene¬
tians, and called by the Sclavonians Omifch.
ALMIZADIR, an obfolete term among chemifts for
verdigris, <bc.
ALMODIA, a kind of very long and narrow boat, ufed
in the E. Indies.
ALMOGIZA, a term ufed by Arabian writers for the
limb of the aftrolabe. See Astrolabe.
ALMOIN, orAlmoin, in law. See Frank-
Almoin.
ALMOND, the fruit of the almond-tree. See Amyg-
DALUS.
Almond-Zw. See Amygdalus.
Egyptian Almond, in botany. See Brabejum.
Almond, in commerce, a meafure by which the Portu-
guefe fell their oil; twenty-fix almonds make a pipe.
ALMONDS, in anatomy. See Amygdala.
Almou'D-furnacc, among refiners, that in which the
flags of litharge, left in refining filver, are reduced to
lead again, by the help of charcoal.
Almond is alfo the name of a fpecies of rock-cryftal, u-
fed by lapidaries in adorning candlefticks, &c. on ac¬
count of their refemblance to the fruit of that name.
ALMONDBURY, a village in England, in the weft
riding of Yorklhire, fix miles from Hallifax,
A L N ( i
ALMONER, an officer appointed to diftribute alms to
the poor.
ALMONRY, Aumbry, Ambry. See Ambry.
ALMS, a general term for what is given out of chari¬
ty to the poor.
In the early ages of ChrifHanrty, the alms of the
charitable were divided into four parts; one of which
was allotted to the biffiop, another to the priefts, and
a third to the deacons and fub-deacons, which made
their whole fubfiftence; the fourth part was employed
in relieving the poor, and in repairing the churches.
Alms, alfo denotes lands or other effects left to churches
or religious houfes, on condition of praying for the
foul of the donor. Hence,
Free Al ms was that which is liable to no rent or fer-
vice.
Reafonable Alms was a certain portion of the eftates of
inteftate perfons,'allotted to the poor.
Alms-^v, or AvMS-cheJi, in churches, and hofpitals,
a ilrong box, with a hole or flit in the upper part,
to receive the alms of the charitably difpofed.
AvMS-feotf), or A^Hizs-feoth, a term anciently ufed.for
Peter’s pence. See Peter’s Pence.
AhMS-Jjoufe, a kind of hofpital for the maintenance of a
certain number of poor, aged, or difabled perfons.
ALMSTAD, a town of Sweden, in the province of
Smaland, four miles E. of Chrillianflad.
ALMOXARIFARGO, an old duty paid upon the Bri-
tifh woollen manufactures in old Spain : Alfo a duty
of 2t cent- paid in Spaniih America, upon tire ex¬
portation of bulls hides in European veflels.
ALMUCANTARS, in aftronomy, an Arabic word de¬
noting circles of the fphere paffing through the center
of the fun, or a ftar, parallel to the horizon, being
the fame as parallels of altitude. See Parallels tf
Altitude.
ALMUCIUM, denotes a kind of cover for the head,
worn chiefly by monks and ecclefiaftics : It was of a
fquare form, and feems to have given rife to the bon¬
nets of the fame ffiape, ftill retained in univerfities and
cathedrals.
ALMUCIA, is fometimes alfo ufed for the furs, or
muffs, worn by the ancient canons on their left arms.
ALMUG-TREE, mentioned in Scripture, is fuppofed to
be the fame with that which produces the gum arable.
ALMUNECAR, a port-town of Granada, in Spain,
fituated upon the Mediterranean: W. long. 30 45'.
N. lat. 36° 40/.
ALMUTAZAPHUS, a magiflrate of Arragon, whofe
office it was to infpeft meafures and weights, and
fearch houfes for ftolen goods.
ALMUTHEN, in aftrology, the planet which furpaf-
fes the reft with refpeCt to dignities. See Dignity.
ALNABATI, in botany, an obfolete name of the filiqua.
See Siliqua.
ALNAGE, or Aulnage, in the Engliffi polity, the
meafuring of woollen manufactures with an ell, and
the other functions of the alnager.
ALNAGER, in the Engliffi polity, a public fworn officer,
whofe bufinefs is to examine into the affize of all
woollen cloth made throughout the kingdom^ and to
Vol. I. No. 6. 3
25 ) A L O
fix feals upon them. Another branch of his office is
to colleCt an alnage-duty to the king.
ALNAM, in botany, an obfolete name of the Pulegium.
See Pulegium.
ALNEY, a fmall ifland formed by the branches of the
Severn, near Glocefter, in England; called alfo the
Eight.
ALNUS, in botany, a fynonyme of a fpecies of betula,
or alder-tree. See Betula.
Alnus, in the ancient theatres, that part which was
moft diftant from the ftage.
ALNWICK, the county-town of Northumberland, in
England, fitaated upon the alne.
ALOA, in Grecian antiqnity, a feftival kept in honour of
Ceres by the hulbandmen, and fuppofed to refemble
our harveft-home.
ALOE, in botany, a genus of the hexandria monogynia
clafs. The characters are : The corolla is ereCt, open
at the top, and the neCtarium at the bottom of it; the
filaments of the ftamina are inferred in the recepta¬
cle, the leaves are thick, fucculent, and for the mofi:
part befet with briftles ; the fruit is oblong and cylin¬
drical, and divided into three cells, which contain flat
femicircular feeds. There are eight fpecies of the
aloe, viz. the perfoliata, variegata, difticha, fpi-
ralis, vifeofa, pumila, uvaria, and retufa, moft of
them natives of Africa. The retufa, or pearl aloe, is
a very beautiful plant. It is fmaller than moft of the
aloe kind. The leaves are ffiort, very thick, fliarp
pointed, and turning down with a large thick end, ap¬
pear there triangular. The colour of the leaves is a
fine green, ftriped in an elegant manner with white,
and frequently ripped with red at the point. The
flower-ftalk, which rifes in the midft of the leaves, is
round, fmooth, of a purple colour, and generally about
eight inches high. When the plant has been properly
cultivated, the flowers are ftriped with green and
white; and fometimes they are entirely white. , This
aloe is lingular in not having the bitter refinous juice
with which the leaves of moll others abound; when
a leaf of this fpecies is cut, what runs from it is wa¬
tery, colourlefs, and perfectly infipid. Linnaeus fays
that this plant thrives beft in a clay foil, and that it
grows wild in the clay-grounds of Africa. See plate
XL fig. 1.
The infpiffated juice of the aloe is a ftimulating
cathartic bitter, and is ufed in various forms, for
cleanfing the primae vis, attenuating and refolving
vifeid juices, for promoting the uterine and hsemor-
rhoidal fluxes, killing worms, &c.
ALOE-WOOD. See Xylo-xAloes.
ALOEDARY, an obfolete name of a purging medicine,
whofe chief ingredient is aloes.
ALOETICS, the name of all medicines whofe chief in¬
gredient is aloes.
ALOGIANS, in church-hiftory, a fe<ft of ancient here¬
tics, who denied that Jefus Chrift was the Logos, and
confequently rejected the gofpel of St John.
ALOGOTROPHIA, among phyficians, the unequal
growth or nouriffiment of any part of the body, as in
the rickets.
li
t
ALOIDES,
ALP ( i
ALOISES, i.i botany, ;ap,obfolete name of the ftrati-
otes. See Stratiotes.
ALOQFj in fea-language, a.won} of command from the
perfon who conns to the man at the helm, to keep
the fliip near the wind, when failing upon a quarter-
wind.
ALOPECIA, in medicine, iignifies a falling off of the
hair, OQcaiioned either by want of nourilhment, or a
bad Hate of the humours. It is alfq ufed by Galen
for a change in the colour of the hair.
ALOPECIAS, in zoology, an obfolete name of a fpe-
cies of the fqualus or Ihark. See, Squalus.
ALOPECOPITHECUS, in zoology, an obfolete name
' of a fpecies of the didelphis. See Didelphis.
ALOPECURUS, or Fox-tail grass, in botany, a
genus of the triandria digynia clafs. The calix is
bivalved, and the flower confifts of one hollow valve,
with a long awn inferted near tlte bafe on the back
. part. There are feven fpecies of the alopecurus, viz.
the pratenfis, or meadow fox-tail grafs; the bulbo-
fus, or bulbofe fox-tail grafs; the geniculatus, or flpte
fox-tail grafs; and the myofuroides, or field fox-tail
• grafs; the above four grow "wild in Britain : the
Egrefiis, the monfpelienfis, the paniceus, and the hor-
deiformis, all natives of France, and the fouthern parts
of Europe, except the laft, which is a native of India.
AfLOSA, the fhad, or mother of herrings, a fpecies of
the clupea. See Clitpea.
ALOST, atown in the Auftrian Flanders, upon the river
Dender, half-way between Bruffels and Ghent.
ALP, in ornithology, an obfolete name of a fpecies of
the loxia. See Loxia.
ALPHA, among grammarians, the name of the firft let¬
ter of the greek alphabet, anfwering to our A.
ALPHABET, in matters of literature, the natural or
accuftomed feries of the fevera! letters of a language.
See Language, and Character.
Alphabet's alfo ufed for a cypher, or table of the ufual
letters of the alphabet, with the correfponding fecret
chara&ers, and other blank fymbols intended to render
the writing more difficult to be decyphered. See
Decyphering.
ALPHABETICAL, fomething belonging to, or parta¬
king of the nature of an alphabet. Thus we fay, al¬
phabetical order, method, <bc.
ALPHENIC, a name fometimes ufed for white barley-
fugar, or twilled fugar.
ALPHESERA, in botany, an obfolete name of a fpecies
ofbryonia. See Bryonia.
ALPHESTES, in ichthyology, an obfolete name of a
fpecies of labrus. See Labrus,
ALPHETA, in allronomy, the fame withlucida corona:.
See Lucida Corona:.
AL.PHITIDION, a term for a fracture, wherein the
bone is crufiied to pieces.
ALPHITOMANCY, a fpecies of divination, other-
wife called aleuromancy. See Aleuromancy.
ALPHONSIN, in forgery, an inflrument ufed in ex-
trafting bullets,in gun-lhot-wounds. See Surgery,
Of Gun-Jhot ’wounds. .
ALPHONSINE TABLES, aftronomical tables, cal-
:*') A L S
cukted.by order.of Alphonfus king of Caftile, in the
confiniAibn of which that prince is fuppofed to have
contributed his owu labour.
ALPHOS, among phyficians, a difeafe of the Ikin, which
is rough, arid Iprinkfed with white fpots.
ALPINE, fomething belonging to the Alps. See Alps.
ALPINIA, in botany, a genus of the monandria mono-
gynia clafs, of which there is but one fpecies. The
flower is tubulous, and divided into lix fegments ; the
capfule, which becomes a fruit, is divided into three
cells, each containing one feed. It is a native of
America.
ALPS, a chain of exceeding high mountains, feparating
Italy from France and Germany.
ALQUIER, a liquid meafure, ufed in Portugal to tr,ea-
fure oil, two of which make an almond. See Al¬
mond.
ALRAMECH, in allronomy, the name of a liar of the
firll magnitude', otherwife called arfturus. See Arc-
turus, and Astronomy.
ALRUM, in botany, an obfolete name of the tree from
which the gum bdellium is procured. See Bdellium.
ALSACE, a province formerly belonging to Germany, but
almoll entirely ceded to France by the peace of Mun-
fter ; is fituated between the river Rhine on the call,
and Lorrain on the well, Switzerland on the fouth,
and the palatinate of the Rhine on the north.
ALSADAF, in materia medica, an obfolete name of the
unguis odoratus. See Unguis. '
ALSAHARATICA, in botany, an obfolete name of the
parthenium. See Parthenium.
ALSEN, an illand in the Idler belt, at the entrance of
the Baltic fea, between Slefwic and Funen. E. long.
io° \2 , N. lat. 550 if.
ALSCHARCUR, in materia medica. See Skink.
ALSF1ELD, or Asfield, a town of Hefle Caffd, in
Germany. E. long. 90 5'. N.Jat. 50° 40'.
ALSIMBEL, in botany, an obfolete name of a fpecies
of nardus. See Nardus.
ALSINA, in botany, a fynonyme of the theligonum.
See Theligonum.
ALSINASTRUM, in botany, the trivial name and alfo a
fynonyme of the elatine. See Elatine.
ALSINE, Cbick’weed, in botany, a genus of the pentan-
dria trigynia clafs : The calix is divided into five parts ;
the flowers confift of five petals divided in the middle;
and the capfule has three valves. There are three fpedes
of the alfme, viz. the media, or common chickweed, a
native of Britain ; the mucronata, a native of Switzer¬
land ; and the fegetalis, a native of France.
The alfine media has fometimes been recommended
in hedtical cafes.
ALSIRAT, in the Mahometan theology, derates a
bridge laid over the middle of hell, the paflage or
path whereof is lharper than the edge of a fword;
over which every body mull pafs at the day of judge¬
ment, when the wicked will tumble headlong into
hell, whereas the good will fly over it like the wind.
ALSONE, a fmall city of Languedoc in France, upon
the river Frefquel, between Carcaffone and St.
Papoui.
ALSWANGEN,
f Ay . /.
^Al> 033 flm-ibuH feifiKbuS Mabiatis
oi- J VHL AK J >
Plate. XI.
Burnt offering-
ALT (12
ALSWANGEN, a town of Livonia, in the dutchy of
C.ourland, fituated upon the Baltic.
ALT, in mafic, a term applied to the high notes in the
fcale. See Music.
ALTAMURA, a .city in the kingdom of Naples, at the
. foot of the Apennines. E. long. 170. N. lat. 410.
ALTAR, a place upon which lacrifices were anciently
offered to forae. deity.
The heathens at firfl made their altars only of turf;
. afterwards they were made of ftone, of marble, of
wood, and even of horn, .as that of Apollo in Delos.
Altars differed in figure as well as in materials. Some
were round, others fquare, and others oval. All of
them were turned towards the eaft, and flood lower
than the flames of the gods, and were generally ad¬
orned with fculpture, infcriptions, and the leaves and
; flowers of the particular tree confecrated to the deity.
Thus, the altars of Jupiter were decked with oak,
thofe of Apollo with laurel, thofe of Venus with myr-
. tie, and thofe of Minerva with olive.
The height of altars alfo differed according to the
. different gods to whom they facrificed. Thofe of the
celeflial gods were raifed to a great height above the
ground; thofe appointed for the terreflrial, were al-
mofl on a level with the furface of the earth. On
the contrary, they dug a hole for the altars of the in¬
fernal gods.
Before temples were in ufe, altars were eredted
fometimes in groves, fometimes in the highways, and
fometimes on the tops of mountains ; and it was a
cuflom to engrave upon them the name, enfign, or
charafter of the deity to whom they were confe¬
crated.
In the great temples of ancient Rome, there were
ordinarily three altars: The firfl was placed in the
fandtuary, at the foot of the flatue of the divinity,
upon which incenfe was burnt, and libations offered ;
the fecond was before the gate of the temple, and
upon it they facrificed the vidtims ; and the third was
: a portable altar, upon which were placed the offering
and the facred veffels.
Befides thefe ufes of altars, the ancients fwore
upon them, and fwore by them, in making alliances,
confirming treaties of peace, and other folemn occa-
• fions. Altars alfo ferved as places of refuge to all
thofe who fled to them, whatever crime they had
committed.
Among the Jews, altars in the patriarchal times were
very rude. The altar which Jacob fet up at Bethel
was nothing but a ftone, which ferved him inflead of a
bolder; that of Gideon, a flone before his houfe ;
and the firft which God commanded Mofes to eredl
was probably of earth, or unpoiifhed fiones, without
any iron ; for if any ufe was made of that metal, the
altar was declared impure.
, The principal altars of the Jews were thofe of in¬
cenfe > of burnt-offering, and the altar, ox table, for
the fhew-bread.
The altar of incenfe v'as a fmall table of fhittim-
wood, covered with plates of gold, of one cubit in
length, another in width, and two in height.
7 ) ALT
At the four comers, were four kinds of horns, and
all round a little border or crown over it. This was
the altar hidden by Jeremiah before the captivity; and
upon it the officiating priefl offered, every morning
and evening, incenfe of a particular compofition. See
plate XI. fig. 2.
The altar of burnt-offerings -was made of Shittim-
wood, and carried upon the fhoulders of the priefls by
flaves of the fame wood, overlaid with brafs. In the
time of Mofes, this altar was five cubits fquare, and
three high ; but in Solomon’s temple it was much lar¬
ger, being twenty cubits fquare, and ten in height. It
was covered with brafs; and at each corner was a horn
or fpire wrought out of the fame wood with the altar, ta
which the lacrifices were tied. Within the hollow
was a grate of brafs, on which the fire was made ;
through it fell the afhes, and were received in a pan
below. At the four corners of the grate were four
rings, and four chains, which kept it up at the horns.
This altar was placed in the open air, that the fmoke
of the burnt-offerings might not fully the infide of the.
tabernacle. See plate XI. fig. 3.
The altar, or table for the fhew-bread, was like-
wife of fhittim-wood, covered with plates of gold,,
having a little border round it, adorned with fculp¬
ture. It was two cubits long, one wide, and one and
an half in height. Upon this table, which flood in
the holy of holies, were put, every fabbath day, twelve
loaves, with fait and incenfe.
The Jewifh altars, after the return from the capti¬
vity, and the building of the fecond temple, were in
fome refpe&s different from thofe defcribed above.
That of burnt-offerings was a large pile, built of
unhewn ftones, thirty-two cubits fquare at the bot¬
tom, and twenty-four fquare at the top. The afcent
was by a gentle rifing, thirty-two cubits in length, and
fixteen in breadth.
Altar is alfo ufed among Ghriflians for the commu¬
nion-table. See Communion-table.
Altar is fometimes alfo ufed to denote the offerings
made at the altar, in contradiflindlion from the fettled
revenues of a church.
Altar, in aflronomy. See Ara.
ALTAR-THANE, in old law bocks, an appellation
given to the priefl or parfon of a parifh, tp whom
the altarage belonged. See Altarage.
ALTARAGE, in law, altars ere<5led in virtue of dona¬
tions, before the Reformation, within a parochial
church, for the purpofe offinging of mafs for deceafed
friends. See Scots Laws title, Ecclefmficalperfons.
Altarage likewife fignifies the profits arifing to the-
priefl on account of the altar.
ALTARIST, the fame with altar-thane. . See Al¬
tar-thane.
ALTEA, a fca-port town of Spain, fituated upon the
Mediterranean, in the province of Valencia, about 45
miles fouth of the city Valencia, W, Ion. if. N. lat.
3S0. 40'.
ALTEMBURG, a town of Tranfilvania, fubjeft to the
he ufe of Aufbia, fituated in 33° E. long, and 46°
2s' N. lat.
Altemburg,
A L T ( i2
Alte’mburg is alfo ufed by fome for Altenburg. Seq
Altenburg.
ALTENA, a port-town df Holftein, in Germany, fitu-
ted on the river Elbe. It belongs to the Danes, and
is the place where all their Eall India goods are fold.
ALTENBURG, a town of Mifnia, in the upper Sax¬
ony, about 25 miles S. of Leipfic, and fubje<ft to the
duke of Saxe Altenburg. E. long. 120 44', N. lat.
50° 52.
ALTENBURG-OWAR, a fortiSed town of lower.
Hungary, fituated on the river Danube, and fubjedt to
the houfe of Aullria. E. long. 170 20', N. lat. 48°
I*'-
ALTENSPACH, a city of Germany, in the circle of
Swabia, fituated between the lakes of Conflance and
Zerll.
ALTERANTS, or Alterative medicines, fuch as
corredl the bad qualities of the blood and other hu¬
mours, without occafioning any fenfible evacuation.
ALTERATE, in mufic and geometry. See Sesqui.
ALTERATION, in a general fenfe, denotes fome va¬
riation in the qualities or circumftances of a thing,
' without wholly changing its nature.
Alteration, in medicine, is particularly ufed to de¬
note the adiion of alterant medicines. See Alte¬
rants.
ALTERCUM, in botany, an obfolete name of the
Hyofciamus. See Hyosciamus.
ALTERDOCHAON, a town of Portugal, in Eftre-
madura, three leagues S. W. of Portalegre.
ALTERITY, a term ufed by fome philofophers for
, what is more ufually called diverfity. See Diver¬
sity.
ALTERN-BASE, in trigonometry, a term ufed in
contradiftindlion to the true bafe. Thus in oblique
triangles, the true bafe is either the fum of the fides,
and then thq,difference of the fides is called the altern-
bafe; or the true bafe is the difference of the fides,
and then the fum of the fides is called the altem-
bafe.
ALTERNATE, in a general fenfe, a term applied to
fuch perfons or things as fucceed each other by turns.
Thus, two who command each his day, are faid to
have an alternate command, or to command alter¬
nately.
Alternate, in heraldry, is faid in refpedi of the fitu-
ation of the quarters.
Thus the firft and fourth quarters, and the fecond
and third, are ufually of the fame nature, and are call¬
ed alternate quarters.
Alternate, in botany, when the leaves or branches of
plants arife higher on oppofite fides alternately.
Alternate angles.- See Geometry.
Alternate ratio. See Algebra, and Arithme¬
tic.
ALTERNATION, properly fignifies a fuccefiion by
turns. See Alternate.
ALTHA5A, in botany, a genus of the monadelphia po-
lyandria clafs. The calix of the althaea is double, and
the outer one is divided into nine fegments ; and the
capfules are numerous, each containing but one feed.
8 ) alt
There are three fpeeies of this genus, viz. the off-
cinalis, a native of Britain, the root and leaves of
which are fuppofed to be balfamic, pedloral and Ho¬
rn achic ; the cannabina, a native of Hungary; and
the hirfuta, a native of France, Italy, <&c.
ALTINGAR, the name of a flux-powder, ufed in the
fufion of metals. See Flux, and Chemistry.
ALTIN, a kingdom of Afia, in great Tartary, be¬
tween the fources of the Irtich and the Oby. It is
bounded on the north by the Kirgifes, on the eaft by
the Amaduners, on the fouth by the kingdom of
Eluth, and on the welt by the Irtich, which feparates
it from Barabinfkoi.
Altin, is alfo the capital of the kingdom of that name,
fituated in the northern part of the kingdom, at the
head of the river Kilam.
Altin, in commerce, a kind of money current in Muf-
covy, worth three copies.
ALTITH. See Asa-foetida.
ALTITUDE, acceffible, and inacceflible. See Prac¬
tical Geometry.
Altitude, of a figure, is the near-eft diftance of its
vertex from its bafe, or the length of a perpendicular
let fall from the vertex to the bafe.
Altitude in optics, is the height of an object above a
line, drawn parallel to the horizon from the eye of the
obferver.
Altitude of the eye, in perfpedtive, is its perpendicu¬
lar height above the geometrical plane.
Altitude of a ftar, &c. in aftronomy, is an arch of
a vertical circle, intercepted between the ftar and
the horizon. See Astronomy.
Altitude of motion, according to Dr Wallis, is its
meafure eftimated in the line of diredtion of die moving
1 force.
Altitude, in aftrology. See Exaltation.
Altitude e/'fluids, is more ufually expreffed by the
term depth. See Depth.
Determinative Ai,r\TVT>t., that from whence a heavy
body falling, acquires a certain velocity by its natural
acceleration.
ALTKIRK, a town of Alface in Germany, fituated on
the river 111, in N. lat. 47° 40^ and E. Ion. 70 1 j/.
ALTMORE. a town of Ireland, in the county of Ty¬
rone, and province of Ulfter, fituated in N. lat. 540
34', and W. long. 70 2/.
ALTMUL, a river of Germany, which arifing in Fran¬
conia, runs S. E. by the city of Anfpaeh ; and conti¬
nuing its eourfe E. by Pappenheim and Aichftet, falls
into the Danube at Kelheim, about 12 miles above
Ratifbon.
ALTO, and Basso, in law, denotes the abfolute fub-
miflion of all differences high and low to fome arbi¬
trator.
ALTOM, a name given, in feveral parts of the Turki/h
dominions, to what the Europeans call a fequin.
See Sequin.
ALTO-MONTE, a town of the hither Calabria, in the
kingdom of Naples, at the foot of the Apennines, ten
miles from Caffano.
ALTO-RELIEVO, See Relievo.
ALTO,
A L V ( i:
ALTO-RIPIENO, in mufic, the tenor of the great
chorus which fings and plays only now and then in
fome particular .places.
ALTORF, a town of Germany, in the circle of Swa¬
bia, fituated in N. lat. 47° 46', and E. long, q° 35'.
Altorf, is likewife the name of a town in the circle
of Franconia, fituated in N. lat. 490 20 , and E. long.
ii° 20 .
Altorf, is alfo the capital of the canton of Uri, in
Switzerland, fituated on the lake Lucern, in N. lat.
46° yo', and E. long. 8° 3c/.
ALTRINGHAM, a town of Chefhire in England,
upon the borders of Lancafhire, feven miles from
Manchelter.
ALTRIP, a fmall town of Germany, in the dtocefe of
Spire, fituated upon the Rhine, a little above Man-
heim.
ALTUMAL, a term fometimes ufed to denote the mer¬
cantile ftyle or dialect.
ALTUS, in mufic. See Counter-tenor.
ALTZHEIM, or Altzky, a town of Germany, fitu¬
ated in N. lat. 490 45', and E. long. 7°-52/, about
42 miles N. W. of Heidelberg.
ALVA de Tor me s, a town of Spain, in the province of
Leon, fituated on the river Tormes, in N. lat. 41°,
and W. king, 6°, about 16 miles S. E. of Salamanca.
ALVAH, among the Mahometans, the name by which
they call the wood wherewith Mofes fweetefied the
waters of Marah.
ALVAHAT, a province of higher Egypt, fituated un¬
der the tropics.
ALVARID, in the hiftory of Spain, a kind of magi-
Itrate or judge, differing very little from the alcaid.
See Alcaid.
-ALVARISTS, in church hiftory, a branch of Thomifis,
fo called from Alvares their leader; who afferted fuf-
ficient grace, inftead of the efficacious grace of the
ancient Thomilts; SeeTnoMisrs.
ALUCO, in ornithology, the trivial name of a fpecies of
flrix. See Strix.
ALUDE, a kind of faeep’s leather, one fide of which
has the wool on.
ALUDELS, in cherr.iflry, earthen pots ranged one a-
bove another, for retaining the flowers which aftend
in the procefs of fublimation. The lowed aludd is
fitted to the pot which contains the matter to be fu-
blimed, and at the top is a clofe head for colleifling
the flowers which afeend highefl. See Chemistry.
• ALVEARIUM, in anatomy, the hollow of the outer
ear. See Anatomy, Part VI.
Alvearium, in matters of literature, is ufed in a .figu¬
rative fenfe for a colle&ion or thefaurus.
ALVEOLUS, in natural hifrory, the name of the waxen
cells in bee-hives. See Apis.
Alveolus, in anatomy, the fockets in the jaws where¬
in the teeth are fixed. See Anatomy, Part I.
Alveolus, in botany, the name of the cells in which
the feeds of feveral plants are ranged.
Alveolus, in natural hiflory, a fea fcffde of a conic
figure, compofed of a number of cells, like bee-hives,
joined into each other, with a pipe of communication.
Vol. I. No. 6. 3
9 ) ALU
ALVEUS, in anatomy, aname fomttiir.es given to the
tumid lafteal veffds proceeding from the receptaculum
chyli.
Alveus, is alfo ufed in Roman antiquity,for a kind of
boat, falhioned out of the trunk of a fingle tree :
Such was that in which Romulus and Remus were
expofed.
ALVIDONA, a town of Calabria, in the kingdom of
Naples, upon the gulph of Roffano.
ALVI fluxur, among phyficians. See Diarrhoea.
Obftruttio Alvi, a Latin phrafe for coflivenefs. See
Costiveness.
ALVIDUCAj among phyficians, a term for laxative
medicines.
ALUM, or Alumen, in natural hidory, a peculiar kind
of fait, fometimes found pure, but oftner feparated
from feveral fubdances, as a foft reddilh done in Ita¬
ly, feveral kinds of earth, and, in England, from a
whitiffi or bluiffi done, called Iriffi flate. Alum, in
medicine, is a powerful aftringent. In dying, it fixes
the colours upon the duff. See Chemistry.
Procefs of making Alum. At Whitby, in Yorkihire,
alum is made thus : Having burnt a quantity of the
ore with whins, or wood, till it becomes white, then
they barrow it in a pit, where it is deeped in water
for eight or ten hours. This liquor, or lixivium, is
conveyed by troughs to the alum-houfe, into cidcrns,
and from them into the pans, where it is boiled about
24 hours. They add a certain quantity of the lee of
kelp ; the whole is drawn off into a fettler ; where
having remained about an hour, that the fulphnr and
other dregs may have time to fettle to the bottom, -ic
is conveyed into coolers. This-done, to every tun of
the liquor they add about eight gallons of urine;
and having dood four days and nights, till quite cool,
the alum begins to crydallize on the Tides of the vef-
fel, from which being feraped off, it is wafhed with
fair water, and then thrown in a bing, to let the
water drain off. After this it is thrown into a pan,
called the roching pan, and there melted; in which
date it is conveyed by troughs into tuns, where it
dands about 10 days, till perfedlly condenfed. Then
daving the tuns, the alum is taken out, chipped, and
carried to the dore-houfes.
This is what we commonly call roche or rock alum,
as being-prepared from dones cut from the rocks of
the quarry; and dands contradidinguifted from the
common alum, or that prepared from earths.
Artificial Alum, that prepared by art, in contradi-
din&ion from the native alum. It is alfo uled for
alum produced by caufing burnt earthen veffels imbibe
a large quantity of oil of vitriol; the effed of which
is, that they are thereby reduced to a mucilage,
which, being expofed to the open air, affoids cry da Is
of pure alum. Tobacco-pipes, wetted with fpirit of
fulphur, likewife afford beautiful cry dak of plumofe
alum.
Burnt Alum, is that melted in a fire-ffiovel, or crucible,
where it is allowed to bubble till it becomes a white
hard fubdance. •' . ...
. The watery part of the alum being thus expelled,
f K k tie
A L Y ( it
the rertiainder is left poffefled of all its acids, lefs
clogged, and more in a condition to exert its effects.
It proves a gentle efcharotic, and is ufed in fmall
quantities, mixed with other ingredients, in tooth-
powders.
Crude Alum, that which has undergone no other refine¬
ment than what it receives at the alum-works.
Native Alum, or Foffile Alum, that formed by na¬
ture, without the afliltance of art.
There are ftill mines of native alum in the ifland of
Chjo, confifting of a kind of vaults, or apartments
crufted over with alum, which may be looked upon as
exfoliations from the rock.
Plumofe Alum, or Plume Alum, a kind of natural
alum, compofed of a fort of threads, or fibres, refem-
bling feathers ; whence it has its name.
Prepared Alum, or Purified Alm, that which is dif-
folved in hot rain-water, and afterwards made to cry-
ftalize, by evaporating the water.
Poche-h.\.vv\., or Rock-rvi-viA. See the article, Procefs
of making Alum, fiupra.
Roman Alum, a fort of rock-alum, of a reddilh colour,
made in the country near Rome.
Saccharine Alum, is a compofition of common alum with
rofe-water, and the whites of eggs, which being boiled
to the confiftence of a pafle, is formed in the fliape of a
fugar-loaf; it is ufed as a cofmetic.
Sciffile Alum, the fame with plumofe alum.
ALUMEN, the Latin name of alum.
Alumen cat ini, a name fometimes ufed for the fait of
the kali.
Alumen fcagliolte, a name fometimes ufed for lapis fpe-
cularit.
ALUMINOUS, an epithet for things that partake 'of
the nature of alum.
ALUMTA, in botany. See Luteola.
ALUS, or Alum, in botany, an obfolete name of the
fymphytum. See Symphytum.
ALVUS, in anatomy, a term ufed for the belly in ge¬
neral, but more frequently applied to the bowels.
ALWAIDII, a fedt of Mahometans who believe all great
crimes to be unpardonable.
ALYPIAS, the name of a kind of white turbith. See
Turbith.
ALPUM, in botany, a fynonyme and likewife the tri¬
vial name of a fpecies of globularia. See Globu-
l aria.
ALYSSOIDES, in botany, a fynonyme of the alyffum.
See Alyssum.
ALYSSUM, or Alysson, in botany, a genus of the
tetradynamia filiculofa. The flowers of the alylfum
confift of four leaves in the form of a crofs : The cap-
fule is (hoi t and fmooth, and contains a number of
roundiih feeds. There are 14 fpecies of the alyffum,
none of which are natives of Britain.
ALYTARCHA, a prieft of Antioch in Syria, who, in
the games inftituted in honour of the gods, prefided
over the officers who carried rods to clear away the
crowd, and keep order.
In the Olympic games, the alytarches had the fame
»o ) A M A
command, and obliged every perfon to preferve order
and decency.
ALZACHI, in botany, an obfolete name of the an-
guria. See Anguria.
ALZAGI, orALZEGi. See Zegi.
ALZARAC, the Arabian name of a coarfe kind of cam¬
phor.
ALZIRA, a town of Spain, in the province of Valen-
tia, fituated on the river Xucar, about 18 miles S of
the city of Valencia, W. long. 20°, N. lat. 390 io\
ALZIZ, among Arabian phyficians. See Ziz.
ALZUM. See Bdellium.
AM A, among ecclefiaftical writers, denotes a velfel in
which wine or water were kept for the fervice of the
eucharift.
Ama, is fometimes alfo ufed for a wine-meafure, as a
pipe, or the like.
AMABYR, or Amvabyr, a cuftom which formerly
prevailed in Wales, and fome other parts of the king¬
dom; being a certain fine, cr fum of money, paid to
the lord upon marrying a maid within his manor.
Amacaches, a people of Brazil, in S. America, near
the government of Rio Janeiro.
AMACUSA, an ifland of Japan, feparated by a narrow
(Irak from Saicoco, or Ximo.
Amacusa, is alfo the capital of the province of that
name.
AMACAO. See Macoa.
AMADABAT, a large populous trading city in the E.
Indies, the capital of the province of Guzurat, or
Cambay, and fituated in 720 E. long, and 23° 40'
N. lat.
AMADAN, or Hamadan, in geography. See Ha-
madan.
AMADANAGER, a town in the higher peninfula of
India, fituated in 74° 15' E. long, and 1S0 N. lat.
AMADIA, a city of Afiatic Turky, in the province of
Curdeftan, fituated on a high mountain, in 430 E.
long, and 370 N. lat.
AMAIN, or Amayne, in the fea-language, a term im¬
porting to lower fomething at once. Thus, to ftrike
amain, is to lower, or let fall, the top-fails ; to wave
amain, is to make a fignal, by waving a drawn fword,
or the like, as a demand that the enemy ftrike their
top-fails.
AMAK, or Am aka, an ifland of Denmark* lying in
13 0 5' E long, and 55 0 2^ N. lat and feparated by
a very narrow channel from Copenhagen.
AMALFA, a city of Italy, in the kingdom of Naples,
and province of the hither Principato. It is the fee
of an archbifhop, and remarkable for giving birth to
Flavius Blendus, inventor of the feaman’s compafs.
E. long. iy° 2o', N. lat. 48° 50'.
AMALGAM, mercury united with fome metal. See
Chemistry.
AMALGAMATION, in chemiftry, the operation of
making an almalgam, or mixing mercury with any me¬
tal. See Chemistry.
Amalgamation, is alfo ufed by fome, in a lefs proper
fenfe, for a folution of fulphur with mercury.
AMAN,
A M A
AMAN, a port of Africa, in the kingdom of Morocco,
upon the Atlantic ocean, between cape Ger, and
cape Cantin.
Aman, is alfo the name of a kingdom, near the middle
of the illand of Sumatra, in the E. Indies.
AMANCE, a town of Lorrain, fouated in 6° ic/ E.
long, and 48° 40/ N. lat. about feven miles N. E. of
Nancy.
AMAND, or St Amano, the name of two towns, one
lituated in the duchy of Bourbon, in the province of
Lyonnois in France; and the other in French Flanders,
about fix miles N. of Valenciennes.
AMANTEA, a fea-port town and bilhop’s fee of the
kingdom of Naples, fituated near the bay of Euphe-
mia, in the province of Calabria, in 160 id E. long,
and 390 15' N. lat.
AM APALL A, a fea-port town of Mexico, in the pro¬
vince of Guatimala, fituated on the Pacific ocean, in
930 W. long, and I203c/ N. lat.
AMARACUS, in botany, a fynonyme of the origa¬
num. See Origanum.
AMARANTA, or Amarante, an order of knight¬
hood, inftituted in 1653, by Chriftina Queen of Swe¬
den, in memory of a mafcjuerade, wherein fhe had af-
fumed that name, which fignifies unfading, or immor¬
tal, Her nobility likewife afi’umed different charac¬
ters, viz. of gods, goddeflcs, fhepherds, nymphs, <bc.
and fo well pleafed was the Queen with the diver-
fion, that fhe inffitutcd this order in memory of it,
confiding of 16 lords, and as many ladies, with the
motto, Do’ce nella memoria.
AMARANTH, in botany. See Amaranthus.
AMARANTHOIDES, in botany, the trivial name of
a fpecies of illecebrum. See Illecebrum.
AMARANTHUS, in botany, a genus of the monsecia
pentandria clafs. The flowers have no petals ; the
calix is multifid; and the feeds are contained in mem¬
branaceous veffels, and very numerous. There are 22
fpecies of amaranthus, none of them natives of Bri¬
tain, except the blitum, or lefler blite; all the others
are found in the Indies. The amaranthus is faid to
be aftringent.
AMARA'LLIS, in botany, a genus of the hexandria
monogynia clafs. The fpatha of the amaryllis Confifts
of one leaf, the flower, like other liliaceous plants,
has fix petals, and the ftigma is trifid. There are 12
fpecies of the amaryllis, all of them natives of the
warm climates. Fig. 1. of plate XII. reprefents the
orientalis, a native of theE. Indies.
AMASIA, the northern divifion of lefler Afia, lying
on the S. fhore of the Euxine fea.
Amasia, is alfo the name of the capital city of the
above province, fituated in 36° E. long, and 420 N.
lat. about 70 miles S. of the Euxine fea.
AMASTRIS, or Amastro, a cityofTurky in Afia,
in the province of Brefangil, fituated on the Black
Sea.
AMATIDES, a name ufed by fome for an incombuIH-
ble done. See Amianthus.
AMATITLAN, a town of N. America, fituated in
the valley of Mixco, in the province of Guatimala.
A M B
AMATORII mufculi, in anatomy, a term fometimes
ufed for the obliquus fuperior and obliquus inferior
mufcies of the eye, as thefe mufcles allift in og¬
ling or drawing the eye fide ways. See Anatomy,
part VI.
AMATRICE, a city of the kingdom of Naples, in the
farther Abruzzo, upon the confines of the pope’s ter¬
ritories, and the marquifate of Ancona.
AMAUROSIS, in medicine, a diltemper in the eye, oc-
cafioned by an infenfibility of the retina. See Medi¬
cine.
AMAUSA, a term ufed by chemills for paftes counter¬
feiting gems.
AMAXOBII, the fame with ha?naxol)ii.
AMAZON, in a general fenfe, denotes a bold daring
woman.
AMAZONS, were an ancient nation of women, inha¬
biting that part of lefler Afia now called Amalia.
See Amasia,
The Amazons are faid to_have killed all their male
children, and to have cut off the right breads of their
females, to fit them for martial exercifes. The ex-
. iftence, however, of fuch a nation is controverted by
many judicious authors, and defended by others, par¬
ticularly Mr Petit, who has publiflied a diflertation on
the fubjeft, wherein are feveral curious inquiries con¬
cerning their arms, drefs, err.
We alfo read of Scythian Amazons, of German Ama¬
zons, of Lybian Amazons, and Amazons of America,
living on the banks of the great river which bears
their name, who are reprefented as governed by a
queen, no man being permitted to live among them';
only, at a certain feafon, thofe of the neighbouring
nations are fuffered to vifit them for the fake of pro¬
creation. The Amazons of Lybia are famous for
their wars with another female nation called Gorgons.
See Gorgons.
On medals, the bull of the Amazons is ordinarly re¬
prefented armed with a little battle-ax, called by the
Remans biceps, or fecuris, which they carried on
their fhoulder with a fmall buckler, in form of a-
half moon, diftinguilhed by the name of pelta, upon
their left arm.
Amazons, in a figurative fenfe, an appellation given to
bees, as being governed by a queen.
Amazon, in geography, a great river in S. America,
which riling in Peru, near the equator, runs eaft-
ward a courfe of more than 3000 miles ; and, dike
other rivers between the tropics, annually overflows
its banks, at which feafon it is about 150 miles
broad where it falls into the ocean.
AMAZONIAN, denotes femething belonging to the
amazons.
AMBACHT, a term ufed in fome parts of Germany
and Flanders, for the magiftracy of a city, or the
diltrict or territory belonging to-it.
AMBADAR, a city of Africa, in the upper Ethiopia,
fituated upon the Nile, between the provinces of Darn-
bea and Savea.
AMBAGES. See Circumlocution.
AMBAMARJAM, or Ambara, the capital city of
Abyltnia,
( 131 )
A M B ( I32 ) A M B
AbyfEnia, or higher Ethiopia, fituated on the fide of
a. lake, out of which the river Nile iflues; 350 E.
long, and 13°$. lat.
A M B A R. V 3, LI A, in antiquity, a ceremony among the
Romans, when, in order to procure from the gods
an happy harveft, they conduced the vi&ims thrice
round the corn-fields in proce/Hon, before facrificing
them. Ambarvalia were either of a private or pu¬
blic nature : the private were performed by the mafter
Of a family; and the public by the priefts who offici¬
ated at the folemnity, called fratres arvales. The
prayer preferred on this occafion, the formula of which
we have in Cato, de Re Ruft. cap. cxlii. was called
carmen ambarvale.
At thefe feafts they facrificed to Ceres a fow, a
fheep, and a bull, or heifer, whence they take the
name offuovetaurilia.
The method of celebrating them, was to lead a
viftim round the fields, while the peafants accompa¬
nied it, and one of their number, crowned with oak,
hymned forth the praifcs of Ceres, in verfes compo-
fed on purpofe.
This fefiival was celebrated twice a-year, at the end
of January, according to fome, or in April, according
to others; and for the fecond time in the month of
July.
AMBARVALIS, in botany, an obfolete name of the
polygala. See Polygala.
AMBE, in furgery, an inftrument for reducing dif-
located bones.
Ambe, in anatomy, a term for the fuperficial jutting
out of a bone.
AMBER, fuccinum, or eleflrum, in natural-hiftory, a
hard bituminous inflammable fubftance, brittle, fome-
what tranfparent, generally of a yellowifh colour, and
when warm fends forth a fragrant bituminous odour.
Amber is likewife endowed with an eledrical virtue;
when rubbed, it attrads flraws or other light bodies.
The tafte of amber is acrid, bituminous, and fome-
what aftringent. It does not effervefce with acids,
and is foluble in fpirit of wine and eflential oils.
When fubjeded to a chemical analyfis, it fir 11 yields a
fubacid water, afterwards a yellow fetid oil, and a vo¬
latile fait; what remains in the retort, is a black,
light, friable matter, refembling the bitumen Judai-
cum.
Amber is chiefly found in Pruflla, and in the Bal¬
tic fea, near the flrore of Sudavia, where it is found
fwimming cn the furface of the water, and is taken in
nets. It is elleemed a powerful medicine in hyfteric
and hypochondriac cafes.—Naturalifts are much divi¬
ded about the origin of amber : Some maintaining it
to be an animal fubfiance, others a refinous juice
oozing from poplars and firs near the fhore, and run¬
ning into the fea. But it has lately been found to be
a true bitumen ; the veins of which were difcovered,
by the Pruflians, in the bowels of the earth, in the
marfh near Kuftrin.
Amber, in geography, a river, which rifing in the S.
W. part of Bavaria, runs N. E. by Lanfperg and
Dachan, and falls-into Ifer,.a little above Landfhut.
Amberg, a fortified town of Bavaria, fituated on the
river Ils, about 30 miles N. of Ratifbon, in 120 E.
long, and 490 25' N. lat.
AMBERGREASE, or Ambergrise, in natural hi-
llory, is a folid, opaque, afh-coloured, fat, inflamma¬
ble fubftance, variegated like marble, remarkably
light, rugged and uneven in its furface, and has a fra¬
grant odour when heated. It does not effervefce with
acids; melts freely over a fire, into a kind of yellow
rofin, and is hardly foluble in fpirit of wine. Amber-
grife is greatly ufed by perfumers on account of its
fweet fmell. In medicine it is ufed for nervous com¬
plaints. It is found in great quantities in the In¬
dian ocean, near the Molucca ifles, as alfo near Afri¬
ca, and'fometimes near the northern parts of England,
Scotland, and Norway. There has been many dif¬
ferent hypothefes concerning the origin of ambergreafe,
but the moft probable is that which fuppofes it to be a
foffile bitumen, or naphtha, exfuding out of the bow¬
els of the earth, in a fluid form, and diftilling into
the fea, where it hardens, and floats on the furface.
AMBERING, a term ufed by fome writers for giving
the fcent of amber to any thing.
AMBERT, a city of France, in the lower Auvergne,
remarkable for its manufadtures in paper and cam-
blets.
AMBETTUWAY, in botany, a barbarous name of a
tree, the leaves of which, when boiled in wine, are
faid to create an appetite, and is ufed by the people
in Guinea with that intention.
AMBIAM, a kingdom of Ethiopia, fituated between
the Nile, and a river which rifes out of the lake
Zaffan.
AMBIDEI-vTER, a perfon who can ufe both hands
with the fame facility and for the fame purpofes that
the generality of people do their right hands.
AMBIEGNAl cvet, in the heathen facrifices, an appel¬
lation given to fuch ewes as, having brought forth
twins, were facrificcd together with their two lambs,
one on each fide. We find them mentioned among
other facrifices to Juno.
AMBIENT, a term ufed for fuch bodies, efpecially
fluids, as encompafs others on all fides: thus, the air
is frequently called an ambient fluid, becaufe it is dif-
fufed round the earth.
AMBIERLE, a city of France, three leagues from v
Rouanne, and 15 from Lyons, on the borders of the
Lionnois.
AMBIGENAL hyperbola, a name given by Sir Ifaac
Newton to one of the triple hyperbolas of the fecond
order, having one of its infinite legs falling within
an angle formed by the aflymptotes, and the other
without.
AMBIGUITY, in rhetoric and grammar, a defied of
language, whereby words are rendered ambiguous. ;
See the next article.
AMBIGUOUS, a term applied to a word or expreffiem
which may be taken in different fenfies.
AMBILLON, a village of France, in Touralne, where
there is a great quarry for mill-ftones.
AMBIT, in geometry, is the fame with what is other-
A M B ( i
■wife called the perimeter of a figure. See Peri¬
meter.
AMBITUS, in Roman antiquity, the fetting up for
fome magiftracy or office, and formally going round
the city to folicit the intered and votes of the people.
On thefe occafions, it was not only ufual to folicit the
intereft of their friends and others with whom they
were perfonally acquainted, but the candidates, being
attended by perfons of an extenfive acquaintance, who
fuggefted to them the names of the citizens, and thence
called nornenclatores, or interpretes, made their ap¬
plication to all they met. This method of fuing for
offices was deemed allowable, and therefore never pro¬
hibited by law; but to redrain all undue influence,
whether by bribery, or exhibiting games, ffiews, and
the like, many laws were enadted, and fevere fines im-
pofed.
AMBLE, in horfemanlhip, a peculiar pace by which
a horfe’s two legs of the fame fide move at the fame
time.
AMBLETEUSE, a fmall fea-port-town of Picardy
in France, fituated about five miles north of Bou¬
logne.
AMBLYGON, in geometry, denotes an obtufe angled
triangle, or a triangle one of whofe angles confifts
of more than ninety degrees.
AMBLYOPY. See Gutta Serena.
AMBO, or Ambon, in ecclefiaftical antiquity, a kind
of pulpit or reading-delk, where that part of the divine
fervice called the gradual was performed.
AMBOHETSMENES, a province in the ifland of
Madagafcar, near the mountains of the fame name.
AMBONUM. SeeOculus Beli.
AMBOINA. See Amboyna.
AMBOISE, a town of Orleanois, in France, fituated
on the river Loire, about ten miles call of Tours,
in i° E. long, and 47° 25' N. lat.
AMBOYNA, an ifland of the E. Indies, lying between
the Molucca ifles and thofe of Banda, in 126° E.
long, and 30 40' S. lat.
In this ifland, which is about feventy miles in cir¬
cumference, the Dutch have a ftrong fort, garrifoned
by feven or eight hundred men. What makes it the
more remarkable, is the cruel ufage and expulfion of
the Englifh factors by the Dutch, in the reign of
K. James I.
AMBOSINE, a province of Africa, in the kingdom of
Benin.
AMBOTE, a town of Poland, in Samogitia, upon the
river Wardaria, two Polifli miles from Siade, and
nine from the Baltic fea.
AMBOULE, a large country in the ifland of Madagaf¬
car, to the north of Carcaneffi.
Ambouee is alfo the name of a confiderable village in
in that country.
AMBOURNAY, a fmall town of France, upon the ri¬
ver Ain, on the road from Lyons to Geneva.
AMBRA, or Ambragrisia. See Ambergrease.
AMBRASI, a river of Africa, which, after waihing
the kingdom of Congo, falls into the Ethiopian
' Ocean.
Vox. I, No. 6. 3
33 ) A M B
AMBRES, a city of France, in the Upper Languedoc,
in the diccefe of Caftres.
AMBRESBERRY, a market-town in Wiltflrire, about
fix miles north of Salilbury, and fituated in 10 40/
W. long, and yi° id N. lat.
AMBROSE, or St Ambrose in the wiood, an order of
religious, who ufe the Ambrofian office,, and wear.an
image of that faint engraven on a little plate: in other
refpeds they conform to the rule of the Auguftins.
See Ambrosian Office, and Augustins.
AMBROSIA, in heathen antiquity, denotes the folid
food of the gods, in contradiftindion from the drink,
which was called nettar. It had the appellation am-
hrojia., as being fuppofed to render thofe immortal who
fed thereon.
Ambrosia, is alfo a term for rough or crude v/ax, fup¬
pofed to be the food of bees.
Ambrosia, in Grecian antiquity, a name fometimos u-
fed for a feftival of Bacchus, otherwife called lena:, .
See Lenjea.
Ambrosia, in botany, a genus of the monoecia pentan-
dria clafs. The male flofcules of the ambrofia have
no petals ; the fruit of the female is prickly, and fha-
ped like a club, containing one oblong feed in each..
There are four fpecies of ambrofia, v/a. the trifida, e-
latior, and the artemififolia, all natives of America;
and the maritima, a native of Greece.
AMBROSIAN effice, in church-hiftory, a particular,
formula of worfhip in the church of Milan, which
takes its name from St Ambrofe, who inftituted that
office in the fourth century. Each church originally
had its particular office; and when the pope, in after¬
times, took upon him to impofe the Roman office upon
all the weftern churches, that of Milan fheltered it-
felf under the name.and authority of St Ambrofe;
from which time the Ambrofian ritual has prevailed.
AMBROSIN, a coin formerly ftruck by the dukes of
Milan, reprefenting St Ambrofe on horfeback, with a
whip in his right hand.
AMBRUN, in geography, the fame with Embrun. See
Embrun.
AMBRY, a place in wffiich are depofited all utenfils ne-
ceffary for houfe-keeping. In the ancient abbeys and
priories, there was an office under this denomination,
wherein were laid up all charities-for the poor.
AMBUBAJjE, in Roman antiquity, were immodeft wo¬
men, who came from Syria to Rome, where they li¬
ved by proftitution, and by playing on the flute.
AMBUBEJA, in botany, an obfolete name of the ci-
chorium. See Cichorium.
AMBUILA, orAMBoixA, a country of Africa, in the
kingdom of Congo, between the lake Aquelonde and
St Salvador.
AMBULATION. See Walking.
Ambulation, in forgery, a term ufed for the fpread-
ing of a gangrene or mortification.
AMBULATORY, a term applied to foch courts as were
not fixed, but removed fometimes to one place, fome-
times to another.
AMBURBIUM, in Roman antiquity, aproceffion made
by the Romans found the city and pomcerium, in which
f L 1 they
A M E ( i
they led a victim, and afterwards facrificed it, in or¬
der to avert fome calamity that threatened the city.
AMBURY, or Anbury, among farriers, denotes a tu¬
mor, wart, or fwelling, which is foft to the touch,
and full of blood.
This diforder of horfes is cured by tying a horfe-
hair very hard about its root, and, when it has fallen
off, which commonly happens in about eight days,
. ftrewing fome powder of verdegris upon the part, to
prevent the return of the complaint. If the tumor
be fo low that nothing can be tied about it, they cut
it out with a knife, or elfe burn it off with a (harp
hot iron; and, in fmewy parts, where a hot iron is
improper, they eat it away with oil of vitriol, or white
fublimate.
AMBUSCADE, or Ambush, in the military art, pro¬
perly denotes a place where foldiers may lie concealed,
till they find an opportunity to furprife the enemy.
AMBUSTION, with phyficians, the fame with a burn.
AMBY, a town of the Aullrian Netherlands, in the
province of Limburg, fituated oppofite to Maedricht,
on the eaft-fide of the river Maefe, in 5° 45' E. long,
and 50° jb7, N.lat.
AMED, or Amida, a city of Afia in Mefopotamia:
the Arabians call it Diarbeker, and the Turks Kara-
Amed.
AMEDEWAT. SccAmadabat.
AMEDIANS, in church-hiftory, a congregation of re¬
ligious in Italy,, fo called from their profefiing them-
felves amantes Deum, lovers of God; or rather, a-
mati Deo, beloved of God.
AMEIVA, in zoology, the trivial name of a fpecies of
lacerta. See Lacerta.
AMEL, a term frequently ufed by Mr Boyle, in a fy-
nonimous fenfe with enamel. See Enamel.
AMELAND, an ifland of the United Provinces, in the
German Ocean, near the coaft of Friezland, from
which it is feparated by a ftraight called the Wadt.
AMELBURC*, in geography, the fame with Ommen-
burg. See Ommenburg.
AMELIA, a city of Italy, fituated on a mountain about
fifty miles N. E. of Rome, in 130 20' E. long, and
420 40A N. lat.
AMELLUS, in botany, a genus of the fyngenefia poly-
gamia fuperfiua clafs. The receptacle of the amellus
is paleaceous ; the calix is fquarrous; and the rays of
the corollulae undivided. There are only two fpecies
of this genus, viz. the lychnitis, a native of the Cape;
and the umbellatus, a native of Jamaica.
AMEN, in the fcripture-language, a folemn formula or
conclusion to all.prayers, fignifying, So be it.
AMEND, or Amende, in the French cud orris, a pe¬
cuniary punilhment impofed by a judge for any crime,
fade profecution, or groundlefs appeal.
Amende honorable, an infamous kind of punlfhment in-
fiibled in France upon traitors, parricides, or facrile-
gious perfons, in the following manner: The offender
being delivered into the hands of the hangman, his
fnirt is dripped off, and a rope put about his neck,
and a taper in his hand; then be is led into court,
where he mud beg pardon of God, the king,, the
4 ) A M E
court, and his country. Sometimes the punifhment
ends here; but fometimes it is only a prelude to death,
or banilhment to the gallies.
Amende honorable is a term alfo ufed for making recan¬
tation in open court, or in prefence of the perfon in¬
jured.
AMENDOLARA, a city of the kingdom of Naples, in
the Hither Calabria.
AMENDMENT, in a general fenfe, denotes fome al¬
teration or change made in a thing for the better.
Amendment, in law, the correbHon of an error com¬
mitted in a procefs, which may be amended after judg¬
ment, unlefs the error lies in giving judgment, for in
that cafe it is not amendable, but the party mud bring
a writ of error.
A bill may be amended on the file at any time be¬
fore the plea is pleaded; but not afterwards, without
motion and leave of the court.
Amendment of a bill, in parliament, is fome alteration
made in the firft draught of it.
AMENTACEOUS, in botany, an epithet applied to
fuch plants as are furniihed with an amentum. See
Amentum.
AMENTUM, in botany, the name of a fpecies of ca¬
lix, confiding of valves, and hanging down in differ¬
ent diredtions from the caulis. Common oats afford a
good example of the amentum.
Amentum, in Roman antiquity, a thong tied about the
middle of. a javejin or dart, and fadened to the fore¬
finger, in order to recover the weapon as foon as it was
difcharged. The ancients made great ufe of the a-
mentum, thinking it helped to inforce the blow. It
alfo denotes a h.tenet that bound their fandals.
AMERADE, the fame with emir. See Emir.
AMERCEMENT, or Amerciament, in law, a pe¬
cuniary punidrment impofed upon offenders at the mer¬
cy of the court.
AMERGO, or Mergo, a city of Africa, in the king¬
dom of Fez, three leagues from Beni-Tudi.
AMERIA, in geography. See Amelia.
AMERICA, one of the four parts of the world, and
by much the larged, extending near 9000 miles in
length, and about 3000 in breadth. It is fituated be¬
tween 350 and 1450 6f W. long, and between yB°
S. and 8o° N. lat.; bounded by the lands and feas
about the ardtic pole on the north; by the Atlantic O-
cean, which divides it from Europe and Africa on the
wed; by the vad Southern Ocean on the fbuth ; and
by the vad Facific Ocean, which divides it from Afia
on the ead. Although it is faid to have taken its name
from Americus Vefpucius, a Florentine, it feems in-
difputable that it was fird difcovered by Chridopher
Columbus, a Genoefe, anno 1491; unlefs fome con¬
jectures, much more ancient, be admitted, that it was
fird vifited by a Carthaginian fleet, who afterwards
fettled in Mexico. It is certain, that its produdtions,
whether animal or vegetable, differ greatly from thofe of
any other country; and its original inhabitants, the Ef-
kimaux only excepted, Teem to have all the fame origi¬
nal, for they agree in every particular, from Hudfon’s
Bay, to the Straits of Magellan, excepting only where
difference
A M H
difference of circumftances may make fome diffimila-
rity. They have all originally a red copper colour,
and every part of their bodies without hair, except
the head, where it is black, ftraight, and coarfe. In
the Spanilh and Portuguefe fettlements, gold is found
in great plenty. Its remarkable rivers are, St Lau¬
rence and the Miffifippi, in N. America; and the A-
mazons and Rio de la Plata in S. America. The An¬
des, which bound Chili on the eaft, are the highefl
mountains in the world.
AMERICIMA, in zoology, an obfolete name of a fpe-
cies of lacerta. See Lacerta.
AMERSFORT, a town of the Dutch Netherlands, in
the province of Utrecht, fituated on the river Ems,
about fourteen miles north-eall of Utrecht, in 50 20
E. long, and 520 25^. lat.
AMERSHAM, a market-town of Buckinghamfliire, a-
bout twenty-feven miles weftward of London. It is
fituated in 4c/ W. long, and ji° 4c/ N. lat. and
fends two members to parliament.
AMETHYSTUS, amethyft, a tranfparent gem of a pur¬
ple colour, arifing from a mixture of red and blue.
- However, their colour is various : Some have a
mixture of yellow, and fome referable red wine and
water; but the beft kind is tranfparent and colourlefs,
and refembling fo much the diamond, that the diffes-
ence can only be diftinguilhed by the foftnefs of the
amethyft. This gem is found of various fizes, from
the bulk of a fmali vetch, to an inch and an half in
diameter. Its lhape is fometimes roundilh, fometimes
oblong, and fometimes flatted a little on one fide; but
its molt common figure is that of a cryftal, compofed
of four planes, and terminated by a flat ftiort pyra¬
mid. The amethyft is found in India, Arabia, Ar¬
menia, Ethiopia, Cyprus, Germany, Bohemia, and
Mifnia; but as they are generally as foft as cryftal,
they are not much valued. It may be counterfeited
many ways ; but the Germans hardly think it w'orth
the counterfeiting.
AMETHYST, in heraldry, a term for the purple colour
in the coat of a nobleman, in ufe with thofe who bla¬
zon by precious ftones, inftead of metals and colours.
This, in a gentleman’s efcutcheon, is called Pur pure,
and in thofe of fovereign princes, Mercury.
AMETHYSTEA, in botany, a genus of the diandria
monogynia clafs, of which there is but one fpecies,
viz. the caerulea, a native of the mountains of Sibe¬
ria. The corolla of this plant is quinquefide, the ca-
lix a little bell-fhaped, and the capfule contains four
gibbous feeds.
AMETHYSTINE, in a general fenfe, an appellation
given to whatever partakes of the nature, or emulates
the colour of the amethyft.
AMEY, a city of Savoy, fituated in a plain, upon die
lake Nicy.
AMGAILA, or AmgAilam, an obfolete name of a
fpecies of acanthus. See Acanthus.
AMHAR, orAMHARA, a kingdom of Abyflinia in Afri¬
ca, fubjedt to the great Negus. It is bounded on the
■ north by the kingdom of Bajemder; on the eaft, by
that of Angote ; on the fomh, by the kingdom of
A M I
Walaca; and on the weft, by the Nile, which fepa-
rates it from the kingdom of Gojam. This country
is remarkable for the mountains Ghefghen and Amba-
cel, where the children and near relations of the kings
of Abyflinia were formerly confined; upon which ac¬
count it is regarded as the native country of the mo¬
dern emperors.
AMI A, in ichthyology, the trivial name of a fpecies of
fchomber. See Schomber.
AMIANTHUS, or earth-lax, in natural hiftory, a fi¬
brous, flexile, elaftic mineral fubftance, confifting of
Ihort, abrupt, and interwoven filaments. It is found
in Germany, in the ftrata of iron ore, fometimes form¬
ing veins of an inch in diameter. There is another kind
of amianthus, which is to be met with in the marble
quarries of Wales. But this kind Linnaeus affirms to
be an afbeftos. The amianthus does not give fire with
fteel, nor ferment with acids. It endures an intenfe
heat without injury to its texture.
AMICABLE, in a general fenfe, denotes any thing done
in a friendly manner, or to promote peace.
Amicable benches, in Roman antiquity, were, accord¬
ing to Pitifcus, lower and lefs honourable feats allot¬
ted for the judtces pedanei, or inferior judges, who,
upon being admitted of the emperGr’s council, were
dignified by him with the title amici.
AMICITIA, or tenure in Amicitia, tenere in amici'
tiam, in the feudal cuftoms, were lands granted freely
to be enjoyed only fo long as the donor pleafed.
AMICTUS, in Roman antiquity, was any upper gar¬
ment worn over the tunica.
Amictus, among ecclefiaftical writers, the uppermoft
garment anciently worn by the clergy; the other five
being the alba, fingulum, ftola, manipulus, and planeta.
The amid us was a linen garment, of a fquare figure,
covering the head, neck, and ffioulders, and buckled
or clafpCd before the breaft. It is ftill worn by the
religious abroad.
AMICULUM, in Roman antiquity, a woman’s upper
garment, which differed from the pala. It was worn
both by matrons and courtezans.
AMICUS curia, a law-term, to denote’ a by-ftander
who informs the court of a matter in law that is doubt¬
ful ormiftaken.
AMIENS, the capital city of Picardy, in France, fitua¬
ted on the river Somme, in E. long. 20 30, and N.
lat. 490 50 . It is a beautiful town, and a biffiop’s
fee, under the archbifhop of Rheims. Here too is an
univerfity of confiderable note.
AMIGDALUS, in botany. See Amygdalus.
AMIESTIES, cotton cloths, which come from the E.
Indies.
AMILICTI, in the ancient Chaldean theology, one of
the triads of perfons in the third order of the divine
hierarchy. See Hierarchy.
AMINA, a city of Ethiopia in Africa, nine miles from
Albcar.
AMINEUM cetum, the name ef a vinegar made of the:
wine of Aminae, a town of Campania in Italy.
AMIRANTE, in the Spaniffi polity, a great officer of
ftate, aofweringto our lord high-admiral.
( I35 )
AMISIA,
A M M ( 136 ) AMO
AMI SI As or Amiss Aj in geography. See Am a si a.
AMISS, or drawing- amiss, among fportfmen. See
Drawing.
Amissa, or /ex amiffa. See Lex.
AMITTERE hgan terra, among lawyers, a phrafe
importing the Id's of liberty of fwearing in any court.
AMMA, infurgery. See Hamm a.
Amm a, among ecclefiaftical writers, a term ufed to de¬
note an abbefs or fpiritual mother.
AMMiEA, in geography. See Amed.
AMMAN, or Ammant, in the German and Belgic po¬
licy, a judge who has the cognizance of civil caufes.
Ammant, is alfo ufed among the French for a pu¬
blic notary, or officer who draws up inftruments and
deeds.
AMMANNIA, in botany, a genus of the tetrandria
monogynia clafs. The corolla confifts of four petals
inferred into the calix, which has eight teeth. The
capfule has four cells. There are three Ipecies of
ammannia, viz. the latifolia, and ramofior, both na¬
tives of America; and the baccifera, a native of China.
AMMERGAW, or Ammerland, a fmall territory in
Weflphalia, belonging to the King of Denmark.
AMMI, in botany, a genus of the pentandria digynia
clafs. The involucrum is pinnated; and the flowers
are all hermophradite, with radiated petals. There
are two fpecies of the ammi, viz. the majus and glau-
cifolium, both natives of Europe.
AMMINIEiE uva, a name fometimes given to a fpecies
of vine. SeeViTis.
AMMITES, in natural hiflory, the name of a congeries
of flalagmitoe. See Stalagmite.
AMMOCOETUS, in ichthyology. See Ammod ytes,
AMMOCHRYSOS, the name of a fpecies of mica, a
ftone common in Germany. See Mica.
AMMODYTES, or Sand-eel, in ichthyology, a ge¬
nus of fifhes belonging to the order of apodes. This
fiffr refembles an eel, and feldom exceeds a foot in
length. The head of the ammodytes is comprefled,
and narrower than the body ; the upper jaw is larger
than the under; the body is cylindrical, with fcales
hardly perceptible. There is but one Xpecies of the
the ammodytes,. viz. the tobianus, a native of Europe.
This fifh gathers .itfelf into a circle, and pierces the
fand with its head in the centre.
AMMON, or Hammon, in heathen antiquity. See
Hamm on.
Cornua AMMON1S, in natural hiftory. See Snake-
stones.
AMMONIAC, the name of a gum-refin extrafted from
an African plant. It is tranfported hither in the form
of drops or granules, and fometimes in large mafl’es
compofed of thefe granules adhering together. The
beft kind of it is that which is freeft of drofs, of a
yellowifh colour, and a bitterilh tafte. It is much u-
fed in obftruftions of the vifcera and infarctions of the
lungs.
.SW-Ammoniac. See Armoniac.
AMMONITiE. See Snake-stones.
AMMUNITION, a general term for all warlike provi-
iions, but more efp$cial!y powder, ball, tec.
Ammunition, arms, utenfils of war, gun-powder,
imported without licence from his Majetty, are, by
the laws of England, forfeited, and triple the value.
And again, fuch licence obtained, except for fur-
nifbing his Majefty’s public (lores, is to be void, and.
the offender to incur a premunire, and to be difabled
to hold any office from the crown.
Ammunition bread, /hoes, See. fuch as are ferved out
to the foldiers of an army or garrifon.
AMNA, among ancient phyficians. See Amnis.
AMNESTY, in matters of policy, an aCt by which tv/o
parties at variance promife to pardon and bury in obli¬
vion all that is paft.
Amnefly is either general and unlimited, or parti¬
cular and reftrained, though mofl commonly univerfal,
without condition or exceptions ; fuch as that which
pafled in Germany at the peace of Ofnaburg in the
year 1648.
Amnesty, in a more limited fenfe, denotes a pardon
granted by a prince to his rebellious fubjeCfs, ufually
with fome exceptions : fuch was that granted by
Charles II. at his refloration.
AMNIMODAR, in aflrology, denotes the planet which
redlifies a nativity, or rather the method of doing k.
AMNIOS, in anatomy, a thin pellucid membrane which
furrounds the foetus in the womb. See Anatomy,
Part VI.
AMNIS alcalifatur, a term for water impregnated with
an alkali. See Alkali.
AMOER, in geography, the fame with Amour. See
Amour.
Amoer is alfo an ifland fituated eaft from Niulham,
and north-weft from the land of Yeflb.
AMNITES. See Ammites.
AMOEBiEUM, in ancient poetry, a kind of poem, re-
prefenting a difpute between two perfons who are
made to anfwer each other alternately; fuch are the
third and feventh of Virgil’s eclogues.
AMOL, a city of Thabariftan in Afia upon the Gihun.
See Gihun.
AMOMUM, in botany, a genus of the monandria mo¬
nogynia clafs. The corolla of the amomum is cut into
four fegments, one of which fpreads open. There
are four fpecies of this genus, viz. the zinziber, ze-
rumbet, cardamom, and grana paradifi, all natives of
the Indies. See Cardamom, and Grana Para¬
dis i.
AMORBACH, a fmall city of Franconia, in'Germany,
belonging to the eledtor of Mentz.
AMORGO, an ifland of the Archipelago, about ninety
miles north of Candia, lying in E. long. 26° is', and
N. lat. 370.
AMORPHA, in botany, a gentis of the diadelphia de-
candria clafs, of which there is but one fpecies, viz.
the fruticofa. The vexillum of the corolla is ovated
and concave; it has no alse or carina. It is a native
of Carolina, and is fometimes called barba Jovis A-
mericana.
AMORTIZATION, in law, the alienation of lands or
tenements to a corporation or fraternity a.nd their fuc-
ceflbrs. See Mortmain.
AMOS SON,
AMP ( ]
AMOS SON, a river of France, in the province of Lan¬
guedoc.
AMOVING, the ad of expelling a perfon from his place
or office.
AMOUR, a large river of Afia, which, arifing in Sibe¬
ria, runs eaftward through Chinefe Tartary, and falls
into the bay of Corea in the Indian Ocean.
AMOY, an ifland on the fouth-weft coaft of China, fi-
tuated in E. long. 118°, N. lat. sj9.
AMPANA, in botany, an obfolete name of the boraflus.
See Borassus.
AMPELIS, in botany. SeeViris.
AMPELITES, Cannel-coal, a hard, opaque, foffile,
inflammable fubllance, of a black colour. It does
not effervefce with acids; it is capable of a fine po-
hffi, and for that reafon is turned into a number of
•toys, as fnuff-boxes, and the like.
AMPER, or Am for, an Effex term for a phlegmon.
See Phlegmon.
AMPEZO, a town in the Tyroleze, belonging formerly
to the Venetians, but now to the houfe of Auftria.
AMPHERES, in antiquity, a kind of vefiels wherein
the rowers plied tv/o oars at the fame time, one with
the right hand, and another with the left,.
AMPHi ARTHROSIS, in anatomy, a term for fuch
jundures of bones as have an evident motion, but dif¬
ferent from the diarthrofis, &<\ See Diarthrosis.
AMPHIBIA, in zoology, the name of Linnaeus’s third
clafs of animals, including all tbofe which live partly
in water, and partly on land. This clafs'is fubdivided
into three orders, viz. i. The amphibia reptiles ; the
amphibia ferpentesand the amphibia nantes. See
Natural History.
AMPHIBIOUS, in botany, the fame with aquatic.
See Aquatic.
AMPHIBLESTROIDES, in anatomy, a name by
which fome call the retina of the eye. See Retina.
AMPHIBOLIA. See the next article.
AMPHIBOLOGY, in grammar and rhetoric, a term
ufed to denote a phrale fufceptible of two different in¬
terpretations. Amphibology arifes from the order of
the phrafe, rather than from the ambiguous meaning
of a word.
AMPHIBRACHYS, in ancient poetry, the name of a
foot confifting of three fyllables, whereof that in the
middle is long, and the other -two ffiort; fuch is the
word [ablre].
AMPHICTYONS, in Grecian antiquity, an affembly
compofed of deputies from the different ftates of
Greece, and refembling, in fome meafure, the diet of
the German empire.
- The amphiftyons met regularly at Delphi twice
a-year, viz. in fprihg and autumn, and decided all
differences between any of the Grecian ftates, their
determinations being held facred and inviolable.
AMPHIDROMIA, in antiquity, cbuftituted part of the
luftration of infants. See Lustration.
AMPHIDRYON, in ecclefiaftical writers, denotes the
veil or curtain which was drawn-before the door of
the bema in ancient churches.
AMPHIMACER, in ancient poetry, a foot eonfifting
Vol. I. No. 6. 3
37 ) AMP
of three fyllab'les, -whereof the firft and laft are long,
and that in the middle fliort : fuch is the' word
[caftitiis],
AMPHIPNEUMA, with phyficians, fignifies great dif¬
ficulty of breathing.
AMPHIPOLES, in antiquity, the principal magiftrates
of the city of Syracufe in Sicily, called Archons at
Athens. See Archon.
AMPHIPOLIS, or Strymon, a town of European
Turky, once the capital of Macedonia, fituated in E.
long. 4005', and N. lat. 410 30 .
AMPHIPPII, in Grecian antiquity, foldiers who, in
war, ufed two horfes without laddies, and were dex¬
terous enough to leap from one to the other.
AMPHIPRORiE, in the naval affairs of the ancients,
veffels with a prow at each end. They were ufetl
chiefly in rapid rivers and narrow channels, where it
was not eafy to tack about.
AMPHIPROSTYLE, in the architefture of the an¬
cients, a temple which had four columns in the front,
and as many in the face behind.
AMPHISBaENA, in zoology, a genus of ferpents be¬
longing to the order of amphibia ferpentes, fo called
from the falfe notion of its having two heads, becaufe
it moves with either end foremoft.
The head of the amphilbasna is fmall, fmooth, and
blunt; the noftrils are very fmall; the eyes are mi¬
nute and blackifh ; and the mouth is furnifned with a
great number of fmall teeth. The Tody is cylindri¬
cal, about a foot long, and divided into about 200
annular convex fegments like thofe of a worm ; and'
it has about 40 longitudinal ftreaks, of which 12 on
each fide are in the form of fmall croffes like the R.o-
man X; the anus is a tranfverfe flit; and the laft ring
or fegment of the belly has eight fmall papillae,, form¬
ing a tranfverfe line before the anus; the tail, i. e.
all the fpace below the anus, is ffiort, confifting of
thirty annular fegments, without being marked with
the crofs-lines, and is thick and blunt at the point.
The colour of the whole animal is black, variegated
uftth white; but the black prevails ••ft on the back,'
and the white on the belly. It has a great refem-
blance to a worm, living in the earth, and moving e-
qually well with either end foremoft. There are but
two fpecies, viz. 1. the fuliginofa, which anfwers
exactly to the above defcriptiou, and is found in Ly-'
. bia, and in different parts of America. 2. The al¬
ba, which is totally white, is a native of both the
Indies, and is generally found in ant-hillocks. The
bite of the amphdbtena is reckoned to be mortal by
many authors; but as it is not furqilhed with dog-
fangs, the ufual inftruments of conveying the poifon
of ferpents, later writers efteem it not to be poifonous."
They feed upon ants and earth-worms, but particularly
the latter. 6ee plate XI. fig. 2.
AMPHISCII, among geographers, a nr.me applied to
the people who inhabit the torrid zone; The Am-
phifcii, as the word imports, have their Ihadows one
part of the year towards the north, and at the other
towards the fouth, according to the fun’s place in the
ecliptic. They are alfo calledx\fcii. See Ascii.
M m AMFKIS-
AMP ( 13& ) AMS
AMPHISMILA, a difTeaing-knife, with a d9uble edge.
AMPHITANE, among ancient naturalifts, a ftone faid
to attrad gold, as the loadfcone does iron.
AMPHITAPx^, in antiquity, a garment frized or lag¬
ged on both fides, which was laid under perfons going,
to fleep.
AMPHITHEATRE, in antiquity, a fpacious edifice,
built either round or oval, with a number of rifing
feats, upon which the people ufed to behold the com¬
bats of gladiators, of wild bealts, and other fports.
Amphitheatres were at firft only of wood; and it
was not till the reign of AugttfEus, that Statilius Tau¬
rus built one, for the firft time, of ftone. The loweft
part was of an oval figure, and called arena, becaufe,
for the conv^niency of the combatants, it was ufually
ftrewed with fand; and round the arena were vaults
' filled cavete, in which were confined the wild beafts
appointed for the {hews.
Above the cavete was ereded a large circular pe-
riftyle, or podium, adorned with columns. This was
the place of the emperors, fenators, and other perfons
of diftindion.
The rows of benches were above the podium. Their
figure was circular; and they were entered by avenues,
at the end of which were gates, called vomitoriae.
The moft perfed remains we now have of amphi¬
theatres, are that of Vefpafian, called the colifeum,
that at Verona in Italy, and that at Nifmes in Lan¬
guedoc.
Amphitheatre, in gardening, a temple ereded on a
rifing ground, of a femicircular figure. Thefe amphi¬
theatres are formed of ever-greens, obferving always
to plant the ftiorteft growing trees in the front, and
the talleft behind. They are alfo made of Hopes on the
fides of hills, and covered with turf, being formerly
efteemed greqt ornaments in gardens; but they are now
generally excluded, as the natural Hope of fuch hills
is, to perfons of true tafte, far more beautiful than
the ftiff angular flopes of thefe amphitheatres.
AMPHlTHURA, in the ancient churches, was the veil
or curtain feparating the chancel from the left of the
church.
AMFHODONTA, a term for animals who have teeth
in both jaws.
AMPHORA, in antiquity, a liquid meafure among the
Greeks and Romans. The Roman amphora contained
forty-eight fextaries, and was equal to about feven gal¬
lons one pint Englilh wine-meafure ; and the Gre¬
cian or Attic amphora Contained one third more,
Amphora was alfo a dry meafure, likewife in ufe a-
mong the Romans, and contained three bufhels.
Amphora, among the 'Venetians, the largeft meafure
ufed for liquids. It contains four bigorzas, the bigor-
za being four quarts, the quart four fachies, and each
fachie four leras; but, by wholefale, the amphora is
fourteen quarts, and the bigorza three quarts and a
half.
Amphora, in aftronomy, a name fometimes ufed for
one of the twelve figns of the zodiac, more ufually
called aquarius. SeeAquARius.
AMPHOTIDES, in antiquity, a kind of armour or
covering for the ears, worn by the ancient pugiies,
to prevent their adverfaries from laying hold of that
part.
AMPHTHILL, a pretty town in the heart of Bedford-
fhire in England.
AMPLIATION, in a general fenfe, denotes the aft of
enlarging or extending the compafs of a thing.
Ampliation, in Roman antiquity, was the deferring
to pafs fentence in certain caufes. This the judge did,
by pronouncing the word ampliut; or by writing the
letters N. L. for non liquet; thereby fignifying, that .
as the caufe was not dear, it would be necefiary to
bring further evidence.
AMPLIFICATION, in rhetoric. See Exaggera¬
tion.
AMPLITUDE, in aftronomy, an arch of the horizon
intercepted between the eaft or weft point, and the
centre of the fun, or a planet at its rifing ahd fetting,
and fo is either north and fouth, or ortive and occafive.
See Astronomy.
Magnet teal Amplitude, the different rifing or fetting
of the fun from the eaft or weft points of the compafs.
It is found by obferving the fun, .at his rifing and fet¬
ting, by an amplitude-compafs.
Amplitude of the range of a prejeflile, the horizontal
line, fubtending the path in which the projectile moved.
AMP ULL A, in antiquity, a round big-bellied vefiel which
the ancients ufed in their baths, ta contain oil for an¬
ointing their bodies. It was alfo a cup made of glafs,
and fometimes of leather, for drinking out of at table.
AMPULLACEAi concha, in natural hiftory. See
Dolia.
AMPURIAS, a town of Spain, capital of the diftriCt
of Arnpouzdan in Catalonia, and fituited in E. long.
20 50, andN. lat. 420 15'.
AMPUTATION, in furgery, the cutting off a limb,
or any part, from the body of an animal. See Sur¬
gery, title, Of amputation.
AMRAS, a ftrocgcaftlein the Tyroleze, E. long. 12®
10', N. lat. 47°.
AMSDORFIANS, in church-hiftory, a fed of Proteft-
ants in the XVIth century, who took their name from
Amfdorf their leader. They maintained, that good
works were not only unprofitable, but were obftacles
to falvation.
AMSEGETES, in Roman antiquity, thofe whofe land
bordered upon a public road.
AMSTERDAM, a large and beautiful city of Holland,
fituated on the river Amftel, and an arm of the fea,
Called Wye, a little eaftward of the Zuyder-fea, in
4° 30' E. long, and 520 20' N. lat.
It is computed to be half as big as London ; and, in
point of trade, equal to any town in the known world;
there being people in it of almoft every nation and re¬
ligion of Europe, who apply themfelves with the ut-
moft diligence to heap up wealth, not with a view to
enjoy it, but to have the pleafure of dying rich.
Amsterdam, is alfo the name of a town of the Cura-
coes, in America: likewife the name of three iftands,
one of which lies in the Indian ocean, between New
Holland and Madagafcar; the fecohd between Peru
and
ANA ( r
and the iflands of Solomon ; and the third in the
. Chinefe fea, between Japan, and the ifland Formofa.
AMULET, a charm againft witchcraft, or difeafes, <&r.
Thefe amulets were made of ftone, metal, fimphs,
animals, and, in Ihort, of every thing that imagination
! . could fugged. Amulets fometimes confided in ftrange
unmeaning words, charadlers and fenrences.—The an¬
cients were extremely fond of amdlets. Notwith-
j . Handing the progrefs of learning and refinement, thejre
i is not any country in Europe, even at this day, who do
I not believe in fome charm or other.
Amulet, in cookery. See Omelet.
AMULETICS, among phyficians, a name given to all
medicines which are luppofed to aft as charms.
AMURCA, the name of an antiquated medicine, prepa-
i red by boiling tire recrement or dregs of oil of olives
to the confidence of honey, and ufed as an adringent.
Amurca, in anatomy. See Capfula atrabilaria.
Amuy, a city of India, beyond the Ganges, near the
I lake Chiamai, on the borders of the kingdom of Kan-
duana.
| AMY, in law, the next friend or relation to be entruded
5 for an infant. See Prochen.
! JHien Amy, fignifies a foreigner here, fubjeft to fome
foreign prince, or power, in friendlhip with us.
■ AMYGDALA, the fruit of the almond-tree.
| Amygdala is like wife ufed for a fpecies of echinus
| marinus, a diell-filh. See Echinus.
. AMYGDALA,, in anatomy. See Tenfilhc.
. AMYGDALOIDES lapi,, in Nat. hid. a foffile fub-
! dance, refembling the kernel of an almond.
I AMYGDALUS, or Almond-tree, in botany, a genus
i of the icofandria monogynia clafs. The calix is di¬
vided into five fegments; and the corolla confids of
five petals. The fpecies are three, viz. the perfica,
pr peach-tree ; the comnunis, a native of Mauritania;
' . and the nana, a native of Alia. Almonds are ufed
! in medicine as emollient,
t AMYLON, or Amylum, a term given to darch. See
I Starch.
AMYRBERIS, in botany. See Berberis.
AMYRIS,dn botany, a genus of the decandria monogy-
nia clafs. The floumr confids of four oblong petals.
The dygmia is quadrangular ; the fruit is a berry of
I the drupa kind. There are four fpecies of this ge-
I . nus, viz. The elemifera, maritima, toxifera, and bal-
famifera, all natives of America.
6 AMYTHAONIS emplaftrum, a plader compofed of
I gum ammoniac, wax, bdellium, i&T.fuppofed by the an¬
cients to be ufeful in convulfions.
AMZEL, in ornithology, the Englilh name of a fpecies
of turdus. SeeTuRDUs.
AN jour <?«d waste, in law, fignines a forfeiture of
H lands for a year and a day to the king, by perfons
| ..committing petit treafon and felony, and afterwards
i the. land falls to the lord.
ft ANA, among phyficians, denotes a quantity equal to that
of the preceding ingredient. It is abbreviated thus,
aa, or a.
Ana, among occult philofophers, a term ufed to denote
59 ) ANA
the human mind, from whence fome will have anafap-
ta, a daemon invoked by fick perfons, to be derived.
ANABAO, one of the Molucca iflands, S. W. from
Timor.
ANABAPTISTQN, the fame with abaptidon. See
Abapti ston.
ANABAPTISTS, a feft or denomination of Chridi'ans,
who deduce their original from the apodolic age.
This name was given them by their opponents, foon af¬
ter the Reformation, by way offcorn, and imports re¬
baptizing ; but this charge they difclaim, by denying
that the fprinkling, or pouring of water, upon infants
has any relation at all to the fcripture-ordinance of
baptilm, either as to its fubjefts or mode.
Though they believe the falvation ‘of eleft infants ;
yet they deny their being the proper fubjefts of bap-
tifm: Becaufe they can find neither precept nor ex¬
ample for fuch a praftice in the N. Tedament: Be¬
caufe Chrid’s commiflion to baptize appears to them
to redrift this ordinance to fuch only as are taught, or
made difciples, and believe the gofpel, Mat. xxviii.
19. Mark xvi. 16.: Becaufe the apodles, in execu¬
ting Chrid’s commiffion, never baptized any but thofe
who were fird indrufted in the Chridian faith, andpro-
fefled their belief of it, Afts ii. 41. viii. 12. xviii. 8.:
And becaufe the nature and defign of the ordinance is
fuch as can be of no advantage to infants, it being a
fign and reprefentation of fpiritual bleffings, intended
to imprefs the mind of the perfon baptized with a com¬
fortable fenfe of what is fignified thereby, 1 Pet. iii.
21.: and as infants can neither difeern the fign nor
the thing fignified, fo they think they can reap no be¬
nefit from it, any more than from the Lord’s fupper,.
or any other ordinance of the gofpel.
They repcll the argument drawn from circumcifion,
by didinguifliing betwixt the Old and New Tedament
difpenfations, and betwixt the natural and fpiritual
feedof Abraham, Rom. ix. 8. Gal. iv. 22, 23, 28,31.
and maintain, that as circumcifion belonged to the car¬
nal birth, fo baptifm * belongs only to the fpiritual
birth, or thofe <who are of faith. Gal. iii 7. Our
Lord’s words in Mark x. 13, 14. they coniider as
having no relation to infant-baptifm, as he there nei¬
ther injoins nor exemplifies it; and they didinguifli be¬
twixt thofe who may be fubjefts of the kingdom of
heaven in God’s fight, and thefe whom he points out
to us as proper yifible fubjefts of gofpel-ordinances.
The argument from the apodles their baptizing whole
houfes, they anfwer, by diewing that thefe houfes
heard the word, believed, were comforted, and abound¬
ed in good works, Afts xvi. 32, 34, 40. and xviii.
8. 1 Cor. xvi. 1.5, 16. and fo could not be infants.
The mode or manner of baptifm they affirm to be
dipping cr iminerfwg the whole body in water. Tbis
they fay is the primary and proper meaning of the ori¬
ginal word Bablizo, to dip, immerfe, or plunge. In
fupport of this fenfe of the word, they produce other
places in the-N. Tedament where it is fo rendered, as
Mat. xxvi. 23. Luke xvi. 24. John xiii. 26. Rev.
xix. 13. as alfo the circumdances cf our Lord’s bap-
tifia
ANA ( i
tifni in Jordan, Mat. Hi. 16. Mark i. 9, 10. and of
the eunuch’s, Afts viii. 38, 39. and the reafon of
John’s baptizing in Enbn, John iii. 23. Hence they
affirm, that no other mode can be called baptifm, or fo
fitly jeprefent communion with Chrift in his death,
burial, and refurredtion, which is exprefsly the defign
of baptifm, Rom. vi. 3, 4, 5.
Great troubles were occafioned in Germany by fome
who profefTed this tenet; but of all places where they
prevailed, none fuffered fo much by them as the town
of Munfter. The Anabaptifts, however, of Holland
and Frizland difapproved of their feditious behaviour :
and at prefent, though this fedt ftill fubfifts, as well in
Britain as abroad, yet they no longer pretend to be di¬
vinely infpired; they no longer oppofe magillrates, nor
preach up a community of goods. Thofe of them in
England differ very little from the Proteftant diffent-
«rs, except in rejefting infant-baptifm; as appears
from their confeffion of faith publiihed 1689.
Within thefe four years, the Anabaptifts have form¬
ed a congregation in Edinburgh, (which is the firft ap¬
pearance they ever made in Scotland), -and feem to be
a ferious inoffenfive people. They pray for the king
and all inferior magiftrates, and fubjedt themfelves (in
civil matters) to every ordinance of man, for the
Lord’s fake. They confider the kingdom of Chrift
to be fpirkual, and not of this world; and are ftridtly
upon the congregational or independent plan, admitting
of no jurifdidtion or authority (in matters of religion)
but that of the Great Lawgiver. Their church-offi¬
cers are biffiops' (or elders) and deacons, and thefe
they generally chufe -from among themfelves. They
make the reading of the fcriptures a part of their pu¬
blic fervice, and eat the Lord’s fupper every fabbath-
• day. Their difciples, before they are admitted into
communion, are firft baptized in the Water of Leith,
which they do at all feafons of the year; and, on thefe
occafions, they are generally attended by a great num¬
ber of fpedtators *.
ANABLEPS, in ichthyology, the trivial name of a fpe-
cies of cobitis. See Cobitis.
ANABOLiEUM, or Anabole, in antiquity, a kind of
great or upper coa*, worn over the tunica. See Tu¬
nica.
ANABOLEUS, in antiquity, an appellation given to
grooms of the liable, or equerries, who aflilted their
mailers in mounting their hbrfes. As the ancients
had no ftirrups, or inftruments that are now in ufe for
mounting a horfe, they either jumped upon his back,
or were aided in mounting by anabolei.
ANABROCHISMUS, an obfolete term among phyfici-
ans, for removing offenlive hairs from the eye-lids.
* As fee chufe to avoid every kind of mifreprefenta-
tion, efpecially in matters of religious opinion ; and as
the rncf genuine and fatisfaftory account of the origin
and principles of any fed is to be e'petted from them¬
felves; we applied to the preachers of the Anabaptifl
congregation at Edinburgh, from whom we . had the"
above account.—The fame conduit will be obferved with
rega rd to every other feci of any note.
.0 ) ANA
ANABROSIS, Ggnifies a corrofion by acrid humours.'
ANACA, in ornithology, an obfolete name of a fpecies
of pfittacus. Psittacus.
ANACALYPTERIA, in antiquity, feftivais among the
Greeks on the day that the bride was permitted to lay
alide her veil, and appear in public. The word is de¬
rived from a verb which ligniiies to uncover.
ANACAMPSEROS, in botany, a fynonyme of the
portulaca, and feveral other plants.
ANACAMPTERIA, in ecclefiaftical antiquity, a kind
of little edifices adjacent to the churches, defigned for
the entertainment of Grangers and poor perfons.
ANACAMPTIC, a name applied by the ancients to that
part of optics which treats of reflexion, being the
fame with what is now called catoptrics. See Cat¬
optrics.
ANACARDIUM, or Cashew-nut-tree, in botany,
a genus of the decandria monogynia clafs, of which-
there is but one fpecies, viz. the occidentale, a native
of the Indies. The calix is divided into five parts ;
the flower confifts of one quinquefide petal; the fruit
is a kidney-fliaped nut, inclofed in a flefhy receptacle.-
The kernel is of the fame nature with an almond:
The-acrid juice contained between the kernels is re¬
commended for tetters and other cutaneous difeafes.
ANACATHARSIS, fignifies a falivation, or dilcharge
of noxious humours by fpitting.
ANACATHARTICS, properly fignify fuch medicines
as promote the difeharge of faliva.
ANACEPHALiEOSIS, in rhetoric, the fame with re¬
capitulation. See Recapitulation.
ANACHIMOUSSI, a country in the ifland of Mada-
gafear, bordering on the fouth with Manaboule.
ANACHORET, in church-hiftory, denotes a hermit, or
folitary monk, who retires from the fociety of man¬
kind into fome defart, with a view to avoid the'temp¬
tations of the world, and to beTnore at leifure for me¬
ditation and prayer.
Such were Paul, Anthony, and Hilarion, the firft
founders of monaftic life, in Egypt and Paleftine.
Anachorets, among the Greeks, confift principally
of monks, who retire to caves or cells, with the leave
of the abbot, and an allowance from the monaftery;
or who, weary of the fatigues of the monaftcry, pur-
chafe a fpot of ground,- to which they retreat, never
appearing again in the monaftery, unlefs on folemn oc-
cafions.
ANACHRONISM, in matters of literature, an error
with refpe<St to chronology, whereby an event is placed
earlier than it really happened, in which fenfe it Hands
oppofed to Parachronifm.
ANACI7ASTICS, that part of optics which confiders the
refradlion of light. See Refraction, and Optics.
ANACLASTIC glajfes. See Glass.
ANACLETERIA, in antiquity, a folemn feftival cele¬
brated by the ancients when their kings or princes
came of age, and affumed the reins of government.
It is fo- called, becaufe proclamation being made of
this event to the people, they went to falute their
prince during the anacleteria, and to congratulate him
upon his new dignity.
ANA-'
• /.-Amakyi^XiXS or Crimlbn orient al ILHLv
3.
Aka ^ ABli OllliA or "Whittling* Dnclc
> A N : A (' H
ANAGLINOPALEj amoHg the ancient athletae, a kind
of wreftling, performed bn the ground.
ANACLINTERIA, in antiquity, thofe parts of the
triclinear couches on which a-cufhion was placed for
fupporting the head.
ANACOLLEMA, a compofition of aftringent powders,
applied by the ancients to the head, to prevent defluc-
tions on the eyes.
ANACREONTIC verfi, in ancient poetry, a kind of
verfe, fo called from its being much ufed by the poet
Anacreon. It confids of three feet and an half, ufu-
ally fpondees and iambufes, and fometimes anapefts :
Such is that of Horace,
Lydia, die per omnet.
ANACRISIS, among civilians, an invedigation of truth,
interrogation of witnefles, and inquiry made into any
fa<S, efpecially by torture.
ANACUICS, in geography, a people of Brazil in Ame¬
rica.
ANACYCLUS, in botany, a genus of the fyngenefia po-
lygamia fuperflua clafs. The receptacle of the ana-
cyclus is paleaceous; the pappus emarginated; and
the feeds have membranaceous edges. There are
three fpecies of this genus, viz. the creticus, orienta-
lis, and valentinus, all natives of the eaft.
AN A D A V AD /E A, in ornithology, a barbarous name of
a fpecies of alauda. See Alauda.
ANADEMA, in antiquity, denotes the fillet which the
kings of Perfia wore round their head. It denotes
alfo a kind of ornament which women wore on their
heads like a garland.
ANADIPLOSIS, in rhetoric and poetry,-a repetition
of the laft word of a line, or claufe of a fenteace, in
the beginning of the next: Thus,
Pier ides, vos hxc facietis maxim# Gallo :
Gallo, cujus amor, &c.
Et matutinis accredula vocibus injiat,
Vocibus injlat, 6" ajfiduas jacit ore querelas.
^.N ADO LI, the name by which the Turks call Natolia.
See Natolia.
Anadoli 'Sijfari, a name given by the Turks to the
caltle of the Dardanelles, on the Afiatic fide.
ANADOSIS, among phyficians, the dillribution of the
aliment over the body.
ANADROMOUS, among ichthyologifts, a name given
to fuch fifties as go to the fea from the freftr waters
at dated feafons, and return back again, fuch as the
falmon, i&c. See Salmon.
j^NfEDEIA, in Grecian antiquity, a dool whereon the
accufed perfon w'as placed to make his defence.
ANAESTHESIA, dignifies a privation of thefenfes.
ANAGALLIS, in botany, a genus of’the pentandria
monogynia clafs. The corolla of this plant con-
fids of one rotated petal. There are four fpecies
of anagallis, viz. the arvenfis, or male pimpernel, a
. native of Britain ; the monelli, a native of Verona';
the latifolia and the linifolia, both natives of Spain.
The anagallis is fuppofed to be deterfive ard healing.
ANAGARSKAYE, a city of Mufcovitilh Tartary, in
Vol. I. No. 6. 3
I ) ANA
the province of Dauria, near the fource of the river
Amour. See Amour.
ANAGLYPHICE, or Anaglyptice, denotes the art
of embofiing. See Embossing.
ANAGNI, a town of Italy in the Campagna di R.oma,
fituated about 32 miles E. of Rome, in 130 45' E.
long, and 420 N. lat.
ANAGNOSTA, or Anagno stes, in antiquity, a kind
of literary fervant, retained in the families of perfons
of didinftion, whofe chief bufinefs was to read to them
during meals, or at any other time when they were at
leifure.
ANAGOGICAL, fignifies myderious, tranfporting, and
is ufed to'exprefs whatever elevates the mind.
ANAGOGY, or Anagoge, among ecclefiadical writers,
the elevation of the mind to things celedial and eter¬
nal.
ANAGRAM, in matters of literature, a tranfpofition of
the letters of fome name, whereby a new word is form¬
ed, either to the advantage or difadvantage of the per-
Ibn or thing to which the name belongs. Thus from
Galenus, is formed Angelus ; from James, Simea;
and fo of others.
ANAGRAMMATIST, a perfon who compofes or deals
much in anagrams.
ANAGROS, in commerce, a meafure for grain ufed in
fome cities of Spain, particularly at Seville; 46 ana-
gros make about 10^ quarters of London.
ANAGYRIS, in botany, a genus of the decandria mono¬
gynia clafs. This plant has a papilionaceous vexil-
lum, the alac of which are Ihorter than the carina.
The capfale is a legumen. There is only one fpecies
of anagyris, viz. the fastida, a native of Spain, Sicily,
and Italy. The leaves are faid to be laxative, and tire
feeds emetic.
ANALAlBE, in the Greek church, a part of the drefs
of the eadern monks, anfwerable to the fcapular of
the wed. See Scapular.
ANALECTA, or Analectes, in antiquity, a fervant
whofe employment it was to gather up the off-falls of
tables.
Analecta, analefts, in a literary fenfe, is ufed to de¬
note a colledtion of fmall pieces, as effays, remarks, <bc.
ANALEMMx'k, in geometry, a proje&ion of the
fphere on the plane of the meridian, orthographically
made by draight lines and ellipfes, the eye being fup¬
pofed at an infinite didance, and in the ead or wed
points of the horizon.
Analemma, denqtes likewife an indrument of bi;afs
or wood, upon which this kind of projedion is drawn,
, with an horizon and cmfor fitted to it, wherein the
. folditial colure, and all circles parallel to it, will be
. concentric circles ; all circles oblique to the eye, will
be eilipfes; and all circles whofe planes pafs through
, the eye, will be right lines.
The ufe of this indrument is to fhew the common
adronomical problems, which it will do, though not
very exactly, unlefs it be very large.
ANALEPSIS, the augmentation or nutrition of an ema¬
ciated body.
ANALEPTICS, redorative or ncuridiing medicines.
N n t ANA-
ANA
ANALOGICAL, in a general fenfe, denotes fomething
belonging to, or partaking of the nature of analogy.—
Hence,
Analogical fyllogjfm, is one whofe force chiefly
depends on the analogy between the two preraifles.
ANALOGISM, among logicians, the arguing from the
caufe to the effedt.
ANALGISTA, among civilians, denotes a tutor who is
not obliged to give an account of his conduct.
ANALOGY, in matters of literature, a certain relation
and agreement between two or more things, which in
other refpefls are entirely different.
'There is likewife an analogy between beings that
have fome conformity or refemblance to one another;
for example, between animals and plants ; but the
analogy is (fill flronger between two different fpecies
of certain animals.
Analogy enters much into all our reafoning, and
ferves to explain and illuftrate. A great part of our
philofophy has no other foundation than analogy, the
utility of which confifts in fuperfeding all neceility of
examining minutely every particular body; for it fuf-
fices us to know that every thing is governed by gene¬
ral and immutable laws, in order to regulate our con-
dudt with regard to all fimilar bodies, as we may rea-
fonably believe that they are all endowed with the
fame properties: Thus, we never doubt that the fruit
of the fame tree has the fame tafte.
Analogy, among geometricians, denotes a fimilitude of
ratios. See Ratio.
Analogy, in medicine, the refemblance obfervable be¬
tween different difeafes, which indicates a fimilar
treatment.
Analogy, among grammarians, is the correfpondence
which a word or phrafe bears to the genius and re¬
ceived forms of any language.
Analogy of dotlrine, among critics, is the explaining
the paffage of an author,' in a manner confiftent with
the fyflem which he is known to-have generally fol¬
lowed.
Analogy, in rhetoric, a figure of fpeech, otherwife cal¬
led comparifon. See Comparison.
ANALYSIS, in a general fenfe, is the refolution of
fomething compounded, into its condiment parts.
Hence,
Analysis, among logicians, is the refolving of know¬
ledge into original principles, by tracing things back¬
ward to their caufes.
Analysis, among mathematicians, the art of difcove-
ring the truth or falfehood of a propofition, or its pof-
fibility or impoffibility. This is done by fuppofing the
propofition, fuch as it is, true ; and examining what
follows from thence, until we arrive at fome evident
truth, or fome impoflibility, of which the firft pro¬
pofition is a neceffary confecjuence; and from thence
eftablifh the truth or impoffibility of that propofition.
Analysis, in chemiftry, the reducing of an heteroge¬
neous or mixt body, into its original principles or
component parts. See Chemist'ry.
Analysis, is alfo ufed to fignify the anatomical dif-
fetdion of an animal. See Anatomy.
ANA
Analysis, among grammarians, is the explaining the
etymology, conftru&ion, and other properties of
words.
Anlysis of powers, is the operation of refolving them
into their roots, otherwife called evolution. See
ALgebra, and Arithmetic.
Analysis, is alfo ufed for a brief, but methodical il-
luftration of the principles of a fcience ; in which fenfe
it is nearly fynonymous with what we otherwife call
a fynopfis.
Analysis, likewife denotes a table of the principal
heads of a continued difcourfe, difpofed in their natu¬
ral order.
ANALY ST, a perfon who makes ufe of the analytical
method of refolving problems.
ANALYTIC, or Analytical, in a general fenfe, de¬
notes fomething belonging to the analyfis. See Ana¬
lysis. It is more particularly ufed for the mathe¬
matical and logical analyfis, above explained.
ANAMNESTICS, among phyficians, figns or fymp-
toms from which the prefent date of the body is dif-
covered.
ANAMORPHOSIS, in perfpedtive, and painting, a
mondrous projection, or reprefentation of an image, on
a plane or curve furface, which, beheld at a proper
diflance, (hall appear regular, and in proportion. See
Perspective.
ANANAS, in botany, the trivial name of a fpecies of
bromelia. SeeBROMELiA.
ANANCITIS, in antiquity, a kind of figured done,
otherwife called fyncchiiis, celebrated for its magical
virtue of raifing the fliadows of the infernal gods.
ANANTHOCYCLUS, in botany. See Colutea.
ANAPEST, in ancient poetry, a foot confiding of two
flioit fyllables, and one long: Such is the word fco-
piilos. It is jud the reyerfe of the dactyl. See
Dactyl.
ANAPAESTIC verfes, thofe confiding wholly or chief¬
ly of anapasds.
ANAPES, a town in Flanders, fituated upon the river
Marque, fomething more than a league’s didance from
Lifle.
ANAPHORA, in rhetoric, the repetition of the fame
word or words in the beginning of a fentence, or verfe:
Thus Virgil,
Pan etiam Area did mecum fe judice certet.
Pan etiam Arcadia dicat fe judice vicium.
Anaphora, among pbyficians, the throwing off puru¬
lent matter by the mouth.
ANAPHRODISIA, fignifies impotence, or want of
power to procreate.
ANAPLASIS, fignifies the replacing or fetting a fract
tured bone.
ANAPLEROSIS, among phyficians. See Plethora.
ANAPLEROTICS, medicines that promote the growth
or granulation of the flelh, in wounds, ulcers, <bc.
ANAPODOPHYLLUM, in botany. See Podophyl¬
lum.
ANAPULA, a province of Venezuela in South Ame^
ANA-
( r42 )
,A N A ( i
ANAQUITO, a country of Peru, in South America, in
the government of Quito.
ANARCHY, in matters of polity, fuch a confufion in
the ftate, that no fupreme authority is lodged either in
i the prince or other rulers, and confequently the peo¬
ple live at large, without fubordination, or any refpeft
for the laws.
ANARICHAS, in ichthyology, a genus of filhes of
the order of apodes. The head of the anarichas is a
little obtufe; the teeth are thick fet and roundilh.
The fix fore ones, both above and below, are conical
and diverging; the inferior and palate molares are
round ; the branchioftege membrane has fix rays ; the
• body is fomewhat cylindrical; the tail-fin is diftindt.
There is one fpecies of this genus, viz. the anari¬
chas lupus, or fea-wolf. It grows generally to four or
five feet in length. The lapis bufonites or lycodentes
is the teeth of the anarichas petrified. It is a native
of the northern coaft of England.
ANARRHINON, in botany. See Antirrhinum.
ANARRHOPIA, among phyficians, a tendency of the
humours to the head or fuperior parts.
ANAS, in ornithology, a genus of birds belonging to
the order of anferes. The beak of this genus is a lit¬
tle obtufe, covered with an epidermis or Ikin, gibbous
at the bale, and broad at the apex; the tongue is ob¬
tufe and flefliy; the feet are webbed and fitted for
fwimming. Under this genus Linnreus comprehends
38 fpecies, viz. 1. The cygnus, or fwan, with a fe-
micylindrical black bill, yellow wax, and a white bo¬
dy. It is the wild fwan of Englifli authors, and a na¬
tive of Europe and N. America. Linnaeus fays, they
frequently vifit Sweden after a thaw; and they are
caught with apples in which a. hook is concealed.
2. The cygnoides, with a feniicylindrical bill, gibbous
wax, and tumid eye-brows: It is the fwan-goofe of
Ray, from Guinea. There is likewife a variety of
this fpecies, of a lefs fize, called the goofe of Muf-
covy. 3. The tadorna, with a flat bill, a 'compreffed
forehead, a greenifli black head, and the body is va¬
riegated with white. It is the fhell-drake of Ray, and
frequents the fea-coafts of Europe. 4. The fpec-
tabilis, has a comprefled bill, gibbous at the bafe, a
black feathery carina, and a hoary head. It is the
grey-headed duck of Edwards, and is a native of Swe¬
den and Canada, j. The fufca, is of a blackifli co¬
lour, has a white fpot behind the eyes, and a white line
on the wings. The male of this fpecies is diftinguifli-
ed by a gibbofity at the bafe of the bill. It is the
black duck of Ray, and a native of the European feas.
6. The nigra, is totally black, and has a gibbofity
at the bafe of the bill; the tail refembles a wedge;
the female is brownilh. It is the .lefler black duck of
Ray, and a native of Britain and Lapland. 7. The
anfer, has a femicylindrical bill; the upper part of the
body is afli-coloured, but paler below; and the neck is
ftreaked. It is the wild-goofe of Ray, and is a native
of Europe and America. There is a variety of this
fpecies from America, wh?ch Edwards calls the .laugh-
ing-gdofe ; it has a white ring at the bafe of the bill,
and its neck is fir caked. The apferes migrate in large
3 ) ANA
troops. 8. The erythropus, is of a grey colour, and
has a white forehead. It inhabits the north of Eu¬
rope. 9. The canadenfis, is brown, the neck and
head are black, and the throat white. It is a native of
Canada. 10. The ccerulefcens, is greyiih above,
and white underneath; the covert feathers of the
wings and back are bluifli. It is the blue-winged goofe
of Edwards, and a native of Canada. 11. The
bernicla, is of a brown colour; with the head, neck,
and breaft black; and a white collar. It is the
brent-goofe of Ray, and is a native of the northern
parts of Europe. 12. The molliffima, or cutbert-
duck of Ray, has a cylindrical bill, and the wax is
divided behind and wrinkled. The feathers, which
are very foft and valuable, fall off during incubation.
The male is white above, but black below and behind ;
the female is greenifli. It is a native of the north of
Europe. 13. The mofchata, or Mufcovy duck of
Ray, has a naked papillous face, and is a native of
India. 14. The bahamenfis, or Bahama duck, is
grey, with a lead-coloured bill. It has a tawny fpot
on the fides, and a green yellowifli fpot on the wings.
It is a native of Bahama. 1 5. The albeola, or little
black and white duck, has a black back'and wings;
the head is bluiflv, and white on the hinder-part. It
is a native .of America. 16. clypeata, or fliove-
4er of Ray, has the end of its bill broad and rounded,
and a crooked nail at the end of it. It is found near
the European ftiores. 17. The ftrepera, or flat-bill-
eddhck of Aldrovandus, has the wings variegated with
black, white, and red. It frequents the frefn waters
of Europe. 18. The bucephala, or leffer duck, of
Catelby, has the back and wings black ; and the,head,
both above and below, is interfperfed with fliining In¬
ky feathers. It frequents the frefh waters of N. A-
merica. 19. The clangula, or golden-eye of Ray, is
variegated with black and white, and the head is in¬
terfperfed with blackilh green feathers ; it has a white
fpot near the mouth. It dives much in quefi of ihell-
fifh ; the eyes are of a fiiining gold colcur, 20. The
ruftica, is brownilh, or afli-coloured, with a white
fpot on the ears and wings. It is a native of N. A-
merica. 21. The perfpicillata, or great black duck,
is white on the top of the head and of the neck, and
has a black fpot on the bill, immediately behind the
nofirils. It is a native of Canada. 22. The glau-
cion, or greater wild/duck of Ray, has the iris of ^he
weyes yellow, a grey head, and white collar. It fre¬
quents the northern fhores of Europe. 23. The pe-
nelops, or widgeon of Ray, has a fliarpifli tail, black
below; the head is brown, and the forehead white.
It inhabits the marfhy parts of Europe. 24. The a-
cuta, or fea-pheafant of Ray, has a long acuminated
tail, black below, and a white line on each fide of
the back part of the head. It is a native of Eu¬
rope. 25. The hyemalis, or long-tailed duck, L-s a
tail fliaped like a wedge, and long tail-feathers; the
body is grey, and the temples white. It is a native
of Europe and America, 26. The ferina, or red¬
headed widgeon of Ray, has alh-coloured wings, and
a black rump. It frequents the maritime parts of Eu¬
rope.
A' N A- (
rope. 27. The querquedula, or firfl teal of Aldro-
vandus, has a green fpot on the wings, and a white
line above the eyes. It frequents the frefti waters of
Europe. 28. The crecca, or common teal, has a
green fpot on the wings, and a white line both above
and below the eyes. It frequents the frefti waters of
Europe. This fpecies is to be met with in Dudding-
flon-loch, a frelh-water lake, within a mile of Edin¬
burgh.. 29. The hiftrionica, or dufky-fpotted duck
of Edwards, is of a brown colour, variegated with
white and blue; has a double line on the ears and
temples; the collar is white, and there is a white
ftreak on the neck. It is a native of America,
go. The minuta, or little brown and white duck of
Edwards, is of a greyifti colour, with white ears, and
the prime feathers of the wings blackifti. It is a na¬
tive of Canada. 31. The circia, or fummer-teal of
Ray, with the wings variegated with white fpojts, a
white line above the eyes, and the beak and feet of an
afti-colour. It frequents the lakes of Europe. 32.
The autumnalis, or red-billed whiffling duck of Ed¬
wards, is of a grey colour, with the prime feathers of
the wings, the tail, and belly black; and the area of
the wings yellow and white. It is a native of Ame-
jica. 33. The bofehas, or common wild-duck of
Ray; the intermediate tail-feathers of the drake are
turned backward, and the bill is ftrait. It frequents
the lakes of Europe. This duck feeds upon frogs and
leveral forts of infers.—The wild duck builds its neft
among rufltes or heath, near the water, and lays 12 or
14 eggs. At moulting-time, when they cannot fly,
great numbers of them are taken with nets. Birds
with flat bills, that find their food by groping, have
three pair of nerves that extend to the end of their
bills : thefe nerves are remarkably confpicuous in the
head and bill of the wild-duck; and are larger than
thofe of a goofe, or any other bird yet known: This is
the reafon they grope for food more than any other bird
whatever.—34. The adunca, or hook-billed domeftic
duck of Ray, has the fame charadlers with the bofehas,
excepting that the bill is crooked. 35. The galcriculata,
or Chinefe teal of Edwards, has a hanging crelt; and
on the hinder part of the back, on both fides, there is
a crooked, flat, elevated feather; the creft is green and
red; and the back is brown, and fpotted with blue;
the ere<ft feathers on the back are red and blunt; one
edge of the inmoft wing-feather, when the wings are
ftiut, is raifed over the back, and is red, and like a
fickle before. It is a native of China. 36. The
fponfa, or fummer-duck of Catelby, has a depending
green creft, variegated with blue and white ; the back
is likewife variegated with blue and white; the breaft
is grey, and fpotted with white; and the throat is
white. It is a native of N. Ameiica. .37. The ar-
borea, or black-billed whiftling-duck of Edwards, is
of a reddifti brown colour, with a fort of creft on the
head; the belly is fpotted with black and white. It
is a native of America. Sloane informs ns, that this
duck perches on trees; that it is about 20- inches long,
from the end of the hill to the point of die tail; that
it makes a kind of whiftling noife, from which cir-
4 ) ANA
cumftance it has received its name. See {date XII. fig.
3, 38. The fuligula, or tufted-duck of Ray, has a
hanging creft, a black body, and the wings and bel¬
ly fpotted with white. It is a native of Europe. The
male of this fpecies difappears during the incubatioir
of the female.
Anas canipejiris, in ornithology. See Tetrad.
ANiVSCAPTA, among phyficians. See Ana.
ANASARCA, in medicine, a fpecies of dropfy, in
which the Ikin is puffed up and fwelled, and the im-
preflion of the fingers remain, for fome time, in the
part to which they are applied, but principally in the
legs. See Medicine, title, Dropjy.
ANASSA, or Anas sis, in botany, a fynonime of a
fpecies of bromelia. See Bromedia.
ANASTALTICS, in pharmacy. See Styptics.
ANASTASIS, a term among ancient phyficians, for a
rifing up to go to ftool. It alfo fignifies the paflage of
any humour, when expelled from one part, and obli¬
ged to remove to another.
anAstatica, or rofe of Jericho, in botany, a genus
of the tetradynamia filiculofa clafs. The flower con-
fifts of four roundilh petals, difpofed in the form of a
crofs ; the feed is a ftiort bilocular pod, containing in
each cell a Angle roundilh feed. There are two fpecies
of the anaftatica, viz. the hierochuntica, a native of
the fandy parts of Paleftine, and the fhores of the
Red-fea; and the Syriaca, a native of Syria.
-ANASTGCCHICOSIS, fignifies a refolmion of the fo-
lids and fluids.
ANASTOMASIS, or Anastomosis, in anatomy, the
opening of the mouths of vefl’ds, in order to dif-
charge their contained fluids. It is likewile ufed for
the communication of two veffels at their extremities;
as the inofculation of a vein with a vein, of an artery
with an artery, or of an artery with a vein.
ANASTOMATICS, medicines fuppofed to have the
power of opening the mouths of the veffels, and pro¬
moting the circulation; fuch as deobftruent, cathartic,
and fudorific medicines.
ANASTROPHE, in rhetoric, denotes the inverfion of
the natural order of words.
ANATHEMA, among ecclefiaftical writers, imports
whatever is fet apart, feparated, or divided; but is
moft ufually meant to exprefs the cutting off a perfon
from the privileges of fociety, and communion with
the faithful.
The anathema differs from excommunication in the
circumftances of being attended with curfes and exe¬
crations. It was praftifed in the primitive church-a-
gainft notorious offenders; and the form of that pro¬
nounced by Synecius againft one Andronicus, is as fol¬
lows : “ Let no church of God be open to Andro-
“ nicus, but let every fanftuary be ftiut againft him.
“ I admonifti both private men and magiftrates, nei-
“ ther to receive him under their roof, nor to their
“ table; and priefts more efpecially, that they neither
• “ converfe with him lij^ng, nor attend his funeral
“ when dead.”
Several councils alfo have pronounced anathemas a-
gainft fuch as they thought corrupted the purity, of
the
ANA ( H5 ) ANA
the faith, and their decifions have been conceived in
the following form: Si quis dixerit, See. anathe¬
ma Jit.
There are two kinds of anathemas, the one ju¬
diciary, and the other abjuratory. The former can
only be denounced by a council, a pope, or a bifhop;
the latter makes a .part of the ceremony of abjuration,
the convert being obliged to anathematize the herefy
he abjures.
Anathema, in heathen antiquity, was an offering or
prefent made to fome deity, and hung up in the temple.
Whenever a perfon left off his employment, it was u-
fual to dedicate the tools to the patron-deity of the
trade. Perfons too who had efcaped from imminent
danger, as lliipwreck and the like, or had met with
any other remarkable inftance of good fortune, fel-
dom failed to teftify their gratitude by fome prefent
of this kind.
Anathema likewife denotes Chriftian offerings, other-
wife called donations. See Donation s.
ANATHEMATIZING, the aft of pronouncing an a-
nathema againft fome perfon. See Anathema.
ANATICULA, little duck, in the ancient Roman cu-
ftoms, a term of fondnefs ufed by lovers.
ANATIFERA concha, the trivial name of a fpecies of
thelepas, a teftaceous animal. See Lepas.
ANATOLIA, in geography, the fame with Natolia.
See Natolia.
ANATOMICAL, an epithet applied to any thing be¬
longing to anatomy. See Anatomy.
ANATOMY.
ANATOMY is the art of diffefting the folid parts of
animal bodies, with a view to difeover their ftruc-
ture, conneftion, andufes.
An atomy, is not only the bafis of all medical know¬
ledge, but is a very interefting objeft to the philofopher
and natural hiftorian.
PAR
OF THE
Sect. I. Of the Bones in general.
XJ efore we examine the ftrufture of the bones, the
periofteum, a membrane with which they are co¬
vered, muft be deferibed.
The periofteum can be divided into layers of fibres.
The exterior ones, compofed of the fibres of the mufcles
connefted to the bones, vary in their number, fize, and
direftiort, and confequently occafion a very great dif¬
ference in the thicknefs and ftrength of the periofleum
of different bones. The internal layer is every where
nearly of a fimilar ftrufture, and has its fibres in the
fame direftion with thofe of the bone to which they are
contiguous.
Except where mufcles,Cartilages, or ligaments, are
inferred into the periofteum, its external furface is con¬
nefted to the furrounding parts by thin cellular mem¬
branes, which can eafily be ftretched confiderably, but
Yol. I. No. 7. 3
In treating this ufeful fubjeft, we Ihall divide it into
the following parts: I. Of the Bones. II. Of the
Musclss. III. Of the Arteries. IV. Of the
Veins. V. Of the Nerves. VI. Of fuch parts of
the body as are not comprehended in any of the above,
e. g. The Brain, Thorax, Abdomen, &c. £}c.
T L
BONES.
(horten themfelves whenever the ftretching force is re
moved.
When the periofteum is torn off from bones, we fee a
great number of white threads produced from that mem¬
brane into them; and after a fuccefsful injeftion of the
arteries with a red liquor, numerous veffels are not only
feen on the periofteum, but moft of the fibres fent from
the membrane to the bone Ihew themfelves to be veffels
entering it, with the injefted liquor in them ; and when
they are broken, by tearing off the periofteura, the fur-
face of the bone is almoft covered with red points.
The great fenfibility of the periofteum iri the deep-
feated fpecies of paronychia, in exoftofes, nodi, tophi,1
and gummata, from a lues venerea, or whenever this
membrane is in an inflamed ftate, is a fufficient proof
that it is well provided with nerves; though they are
perhaps too fmall to be traced.
The chief ufes of the periofteum are: 1. To allow
the mufcles, when they contraft or are ftretched, to move
f O o and
146 a N A T
and Aide eafily upon the bones. 2. To keep in due or¬
der, and to fupport the veffels in their paffage to the
bones. 3. By being firmly braced on the bones, to af-
fi-ft in fetting limits to their increafe, and to. check their
overgrowth. 4. To ftrengthen the conjundion pf the
bones with their epiphyfes, ligaments, and cartilages,
which are eafily feparated in young creatures, when this
membrane is taken away. 5. To afford convenient ori¬
gin and infertion to feveral mufcles which are fixed to
this membrane. And, laftly, to warn us when any in¬
jury is offered to the parts it covers.
The Bones are the moft hard and folid parts of the
body, and generally of a white colour.; only in a living
creature they are bluifh, which is owing to the blood in
the fmall veffels. under their furface.
Bones are compofed of a great many plates, each of
which is made up of fibres or firings united by fmaller fi¬
brils ; which being irregularly difpofed and interwoven
with the other larger fibres, make a reticular work.—-—
This texture is plainly feen in the bones of foetufes,
which have not their parts clofely compacted, and in the
bones of adults, which have been burnt, long expofed
to the weather, or whofe compofition has been made
loofe by*difeafes.
The plates are faid to be firmly joined to each other
by a great number of chviculi, or fmall bony proceffes,
which, rifing from the inner plates, pierce through fome,
and are fixed into the more external ones.
Though the exterior part of bones is compofed of firm
compaft plates, yet they are all more or lefs cavernous
internally. In fome, the folid fiaes are brought fo near,
that little cavity can be feen; and in others, the cavities
are fo large, that fuch bones are generally efteemed to
be hollow or fiflular. But the internal fpongy texture is
mod evident in young animals.
This fpongy, cavernous, internal part of bones, is ge¬
nerally called their cancelli or lattice-work.
The twilling and windings which thefe canceiii make,
and the interilices which they leave, differ confiderably
in figure, number, and fize; and therefore form little
cells, v/hich are as different, but communicate with each
other.
The cancelli fuftain the membranous bags of the mar¬
row which are ftretched upon them, and thereby .hinder
thefe membranous parts from being torn or removed out
of their proper places, in the violent motions and dif¬
ferent pollures which the bones are employed in.
The depreffions between the fibres of the external
plates of bones appear like fo: many furrows on their fur-
face, into each of which the periofteum enters.
Both on the ridges and furrows, numerous little pits
or orifices of canals are to be feen, by which the veffels
pafs to and from the bones.
After a fuccefsful injeftion, the arteries can be traced
in their courfe from the pits to the plates and fibres.
We may conclude, from aiteries being accompanied
with veins, fo far as we can trace them in every other
part of the body, that there are alfo veins in .the bones.
The bones of a living animal are fo infenfible that they
can be cut, rafped, or burnt, without putting the crea¬
ture to pain, and the nerves diftributed in their fubftance
O M Y. Parti.
cannot be fhewn by diffedlion; from which it'might be
inferred, that they have no nerves diftributed to them ;
But the general tenor of nature, which bellows nerves
to all the other parts, fhould prevent our drawing fuch a
conclufion.
The vafcular texture of bones mufl make them fubjedl ■
to obftrudtions, ecchyroofes, ulcers, gangrenes, and moll
other difeafes which the. fpfter parts are affedled with;
and therefore there may be a greater variety of caries |
than is commonly defertbed.
On the internal furface of the folid parts of bones,
there are orifices of canals, which pafs outwards through ;
the plates to open into other canals that are in a longitu¬
dinal diredtion, from which other tranfverfe paflagesrgo
out to terminate in other .longitudinal canals; and this
llrudture is continued through the whole fubllance of bones,
both thefe kinds of canals becoming fmaller gradually as
they approach the outer furface.—Thefe canals are to be |
feen to the bell advantage in a bone burnt till it is
white : When it is broken tranfverfely, the orifices of .
thd longitudinal canals are in view; and when we fepa-
rate the plates; the tranfverfe ones are to be obferved.
Molt bones have one or more large oblique - canals ;
formed through their tides for the paffage of the medul- 1
lary veffels.
The bones fultain and defend the other parts of the
body.
Bones are lined within, as well as covered externally* ^
with a membrane; which is therefore commonly called
periqjleum internum.
The internal periolteum is an extremely fine mem¬
brane; nay, frequently it has a loofe reticular texture-; 3
and therefore it is compared by fome to the arachnoid^" 1
coat of the fpinal marrow: fo that we cannot expedt to
divide it into layers as we can divide the external perio- Jfl
Ileum. We can, however, obferve its proceffes enter- 9
ing into the tranfverfe pores of the bones, where proba¬
bly they are continued to form the immediate canals for
the marrow dillributed through the fubllance of the I
bones; and along with them veffels are fent, as from f
the external periolleum, into the bone. Thefe proceffes
being of a very delicate texture, the adhefion of this '
membrane to the bone is fo fmall, that it feparates com- a
monly more eafily from the bone than from the marrow
which it contains.
From the internal furface of the internal periolleum, ,
a great number of thin membranes are produced ; which, j
palling acrofs the cavity, unite with others of the fame
kind, and form fo many dillindt bags, which communi¬
cate with each other ; and thefe again are fubdivided into
communicating, veficular cells, in which, the marrow is
contained. , • 1 ■ ■
The Marrow is the oily part of the blood, feparated
by fmall arteries, and depofited in thefe cells. Its co¬
lour and confiftence may therefore vary according to the
Hate of the veffels; and their dMribution on the mem- ' 1
branes of the cells.
Befides the arteries alre^r mentioned as being fent • ^
from the bones to the marrow, there is at lealt one ar¬
tery for each bone; feveral bones have more, whofe prin¬
cipal ufe is to convey and fecern this oily matter.
The
Part I; A N A T
The blood, which remains after the fecretion- of the-
marrow, is returned by proper veins, which are colle&ed
from the membranes into one or two large trunks, to
pafs out at the fame holes at which the arteries enter.
The veffela of the marrow, wrapt up in one common
coat from the periofteum, pafs through the bones by pro¬
per canals ; the moil: confiderable of which are about the
middle of each bone, and are very oblique.
From the ftru&ure of the contents of the bones, we
may judge how thefe parts!, as well as others, may be
fubjeft to oidema, phlegmon, eryfrpelas, fchirrhus, &c.
and may thence be led to a cure of each, before the com¬
mon confequence, putrefaction, takes place, and fre¬
quently occafions the lofs of the limb, if not of the par
tient.
The marrow is of very conikierable ufe to the bones;
for by entering their tranfverfe canals, and palling from
them into the longitudinal ones, it is communicated to ,all
the plates, to foften and connedt their fibres, whereby
they are preferved from becoming too brittle.
When the marrow, after having ferved the ufes men¬
tioned, is reaiTumed into the mafs of blood, it corrects the
too -great acrimony communicated to ■ the falrne particles
of our fluids by their circufation and heat; in the fame
manner as lixivial falts are blunted by oil m making foap.
Since it is the nature of all oil to become thin and
rancid when expofed long to heat, and bones have much
oil in their firm hard fubftance, we may know why an
ungrateful fmell, and dark-coloured thin ichor, proceed
more from corrupted bones than from other parts of the
body; and we can underftand the reafon of the changes
of colour which bones undergo, according to their differ¬
ent; degrees of mortification.
Though bones fo far agree in their ftruCUire and an¬
nexed parts, yet we may obferve a confiderable differ¬
ence among'them in their magnitude, figure, fituation,
fubftance, connection, ufes, <&c. Of theie v/e fhall only
mention two, viz. that fome bones are bfaad and fiat,
while others are long $nd round.
. The broad bones have thin fides, by the plates being
foon and equally fent off to form the lattice-work ; which
therefore is thicker, and nearly of an equal form all
through. By this ftruChare, they are well adapted to
their ufes, of affording a large enough furface for the
mufcles to rife from, and move upon, and of defending
fufiiciently the parts which they inclofe.
The round tones have thick ftrong walls in the mid¬
dle, and become very thin towards their ends, which is
owing to very few plates feparating at their middle; where,
on that account, the cancelli are fo fine and fpiall that
they are not- taken notice of: But fuch bones are laid to
have a large refervoir of oil in this place. Towards
their ends the lattice-work becomes very thick, and ra¬
ther more complete than in the other fort of bones.—
Thefe round bones hav ing ftrong forces naturally applied
to them, and being otherwife expofed to violent injuries,
have need of a cylindrical figure tp refift external pref-
fure, and ^>f a confiderabld'quantity of oil to preferve
them from becoming too brittle. Befides which, they
are advantageoufty provided with thick fides towards their
middle, where the greateft forces are. applied to injure
O M Y. 147
them; while their hollownefs increafes their diameter,
and confequently their ftrength, to refift forces applied
to break them tranfverfely.
Many bones have protuberances, or proceffes, rifing
out from them. If a procefs ftands out in a roundiih
ball, it is called caput, or head.-—If the head is flatted,
it obtains the appellation of condyle. -A rough une¬
qual protuberance is called tuberojily. When a pro¬
cefs rifes narrow, and then becomes large, the narrow
or fmall part is named cervix, or neck. Long ridges
of bones are called fpines. Such proceffes as termi¬
nate in a fliarp point, have the general name of corona,
or coronoid, beftowed on them, though moft of them
receive particular names from the refemblance they have,
or are imagined to have, to other fubftances, e. g. ma-
fioid, Jlyloid, &c. Such proceffes as form brims of
cavities, are called fupercilia.
Procefles ferve for the advantageous origin and infer-
tion of mufcles, and render the articulations firm and
liable.
In children thefe procefles are real epiphyfes, or di-
ftindt bones, which are afterwards united to the other
parts ; fuch are the ftyloid proceffes of the temporal
bones, proceffes of the vertebra;, trochanters of the
thigh, fac.
On the furfaces of a great many of the bones there
are cavities, or deprefiions: If thefe arc deep, with
large brims, authors name them cotyla; if they are
fuperficia!, they obtain the defignation of glena, or gle¬
noid. Thefe general claffes are again divided into feve-
ral fpecies :—Of which pits are fmall roundifli channels
funk perpendicularly into the bone;—/i/rrow/ are long
narrow canals, formed in the furface ;—nitches ox notches,
fmall breaches in'the bone;—-JinuoJities, broad, but fu-
perficial deprefiions without brims;—-fefifa, large deep
cavities, which are not equally furrounded by high
brims ;—-Jlnufes, large cavities within the fubftance of
the bones, with fmall apertures -,—foraviina, or holes,
canals that pierce quite through the fubftance of the
bones. When this laft fort of cavity is extended any
long way within , a bone, the middle part retains the
name of canal,.mi. its ends are called holes.
The cavities allow the heads of bones to play in them ;
they lodge and defend other parts ; they afford fafe paf-
fage to veffels, mufcles, drc.
To far the greater number of bones, whofe ends are
not joined to other bones by an imipoveable articula¬
tion, there are fmaller ones annexed, which afterwards
become fcarce diftingidfh able from the fubftance of the
bone itfclf. Thefe are called epiphyfes, ox appendices.
Some bones have one, others have two, three, or four
of thefe appendices annexed by the means of cartilages,
which are of a confiderable thicknefs in children, but by
age become thinner.
Several proceffes {e. g. trochanters of the thigh,
of the fcapiila, &c.) have epiphyfes; and proceffes fre¬
quently rife out from epiphyfes ; for example, at the
lower end of rite femur, ulna, tibia, &C.
The epiphyfes are united chiefly to fuch bones as are
deftined for frequent and violent motion ; and for this
puppofe they are wifely framed of a larger diameter than
the
148 ANA
the bone they belong to; for by this means, the furface
of contaft between the two bones of any articulation be¬
ing increafed, their conjunflion becomes firmer, and the
mufcles inierted into them aft with greater force, by rea-
fon of their axes being further removed from the center
of motion.
The foftnefs of the ends of bones- may be of fome
advantage in the womb, and at birth, after which the of-
fification begins at difiFerent points to form epiphyfes,
before the oTfification can extend from the middle to the
ends of the bones .
However folid and compadl adult bones are, yet they
were once cartilages, membranes, nay, a mere jelly.
This needs no further proof, than repeated obfervations
of embryos when diffefted: And how much more tender
muft the bones be before that time, when neither knife
nor eye is capable to difcover the leall rudiments of
them ? By degrees they become more folid, then aflume
the nature of griftles, and at laft offify ; the cohefion of
their plates and fibres always increafing in proportion to
their increafed folidities ; as is evident from the time
neceffary to unravel the texture of bones of people of
different ages, or of denfe and of fpongy bones, or of
the different parts of the fame bone, and from the more
tedious exfoliations of the bones of adults than of
children.
The olfification of bones depends principally on their
veffels being fo difpofed, and of fuch diameters, as to fe-
parate a liquor, which may eafily turn into a bony fub-
fiance, when it is deprived of its thinner parts; as
feems plain from the obfervation of the callous matter
feparated after fractures and ulcers, where part of the
bone is taken out: For in thefe cafes, the veffels extend¬
ing themfelves, and the liquors added to them, are
gradually formed into granulated flelh ; which fills up all
the fpace where the bone is taken from, then hardens,
till it becomes as firm as any other part of the bone.
This happens frequently, even when the ends of the
difeafed bone are at a confiderable diftance from each
other.
The induration of bones is alfo greatly aflifted by their
being expofed, more than any other parts, to the ftrong
preffure of the great weights they fupport, to the violent
con tr aft ion of the mufcles fixed to them, and to the force
of the, parts they contain, which endeavour to make
way for their own further growth. By all this prefling
force, the folid fibres and veffels of bones are thruft
clofer ; and fuch particles of the fluids conveyed in thefe
veffels as are fit to be united to the fibres, are fooner
and more firmly incorporated with them, while the re¬
maining fluids are forcibly driven out by the veins, to
be mixed with the mafs of blood. In confequenfe of
this, the veffels gradually diminifh as the bones harden.
From which again we can underifand one reafon, why
the bones of young animals fooner re-unite after a frac¬
ture than thofe of old; and why cattle that are put too
foon to hard labour, feldom are of fuch large fize as
others of the fame brood who are longer, kept from
labour.
From the effcfts of preffure only it is, that we can ac¬
count for the bones of old people having their fides
T O M Y. Part I.
much thinner, yet more denfe and folid, while the cavi¬
ties are much larger than in thofe of young people; and
for the prints of mufcles, veffels, <b'c. being fo much
more ftrongly marked on the furfaces of the former than
of the latter, if they belong to people of near the fame
condition in life.—Preffure muft likewife be the caufe,
which, in people of equal ages, makes thefe prints
ftronger in the bones of thofe who had much labour and
exercife, than they are in people who have led an indo¬
lent unaftive life.
Having thus confidered the bones when fingle, we
{hall next Ihew the different manner of their conjunc¬
tions. To exprefs thefe, anatomifts have contrived a
great number of technical terms; about the meaning,
propriety, and claffmg of which, there has been a variety
of opinions. Some of thefe terms it is neceffary to re¬
tain, fince they ferve to exprefs the various circumftan-
ces of the articulations, and to underftand the writers on
this fubjeft.
The Articulations are moft commonly divided
into three claffes, viz. fymphyfis, fynarthrofis, and diar-
throfis.
Symphyjis, which properly fignifies the concretion or
growing together of parts, when ufed to exprefs the ar-
ticulatiqns of bones, does not feem to comprehend, un¬
der the meaning generally given to it, any thing relating
to the form or motion of the conjoined bones ; but by
it moft authors only denote the bones to be connefted by
fome other fubftance ; and as there are different fubftan-
ces which ferve this purpofe, therefore they divide it in¬
to the three following fpecies :
1. Synchondrrjis, when a cartilage is the connefting
fubftance : Thus the ribs are joined to the fternum; thus
the bodies of the vertebras are connefted to each other;
as are likewife the oft a pubis.
2. Synneurcfu, or fyndefmofss, when ligaments are
■the connefting bodies, as they are in all the moveable
Articulations.
3. Syjfarccjis, when mufcles are ftretched from one
bone to another, as they muft be where there are move-
able joints.
The fecond clafs of articulations, the fynarthrcjiit
which is faid to be the general term by which the im¬
moveable conjunftion of bones is expreffed, is divided
into three kinds.
1. The future is that articulation where two bones
ai£ mutually indented into each other, or as if they
were fewed together. Thus the bones of the head are
joined; thus epiphyfes are joined to the bones, before
their full conneftion and union with them,.
2. Gomphvjis is the fixing one bone into another, as
a nail is fixed in a board : Thus the teeth are fecured in
their fockets.
3. Schindylefis, or ploughing, when a thin lamella of
one bone is received into a long narrow furrow of ano¬
ther : Thus the proceflus azygos of the fphenoid, and
the nafal procefs of the ethmoid bone, are received by
the vomer.
The third clafs, or diartbrojis, is the articulation
v/here the bones are fo loofely connefted as to allow
large motion. This is fubdivided into three kinds.
The
Part T. ANA-’
The firil ii'etfarihrojlt, or the ball and focket, when
a large head is received into a deep cavity; as the
head of the os femoris is into the acetabulum coxen-
dicis.
The fecond is arthrodia, when a round head is re¬
ceived into a fuperficial cavity; as in the articulation of
the arm-bone and fcapula. Thefe two fpecies of diar-
throfis allow motion to all fides..
The third is ginglimus, which properly fignifies the
hinge of a door or window ; in it the parts of the bones
mutually receive and are received, and allow of motion
two ways : Workmen call it charnal.
The ginglimus is generally divided into three kinds,
to which fome give the names of contiguous, dijlant,
and compound.
The fird kind of ginglimus is, when a bone has feve-
ral protuberances and cavities, which anfwer to as many
cavities and procefl'es of the other bone, with which it is
articulated; as in the conjundtion of the femur with the
tibia.
The fecond fpecies is, when a bone receives another at
one end, and is received by the fame bone at the other
end; as in the radius and ulna.
The lad fort is, when a bone receives another, and is
received by a third; as in the oblique procefl'es of the
vertebrae.
If the moveable bones are not connected and kept firm
by fome ftrong fubftance, they would be luxated at every
motion of the joints : and if.their hard, rough, unequal
furfaces were to play on each other, their motion would
not only be difficult, but the lofs of fubftance from attri¬
tion would be great. Therefore ligaments are made to
obviate the fixft, and cartilages to prevent the other in-
conveniehby. But bscaufe ligaments and cartilages turn
rigid, inflexible, and rough, unlefs they are kept moift, a
furficient quantity of proper liquor is fupplied for their
lubrication, and to preferve them in a flexible ftate.
Seeing then thefe parts are fo neceflary to the articula¬
tions, we fliall next confider their ftrudture, fituation,
and ufes, fo-far as they are fubfervient to the bones, and
their motions.
Ligaments are white flexible bodies, thicker and firm¬
er than membranes, and not fo hard or firm as cartilages,
without any remarkable cavity in their fubftance, difficult¬
ly ftretched, and with little elafticity ; ferving to connedt
one part to another, or to prevent t,he parts to which they
are fixed from being removed out of that fituation which
is ufeful and fafe.
After maceration in water, the ligaments can eafily
be divided; and each ligamentous layer appears compofed
of fibres, the largeft of which are difpofed in a longitu¬
dinal diredtion.
The arteries of ligaments are very confpicuops after a
tolerable injection, and the larger trunks of their veins
are fometimes to-be feen full of blood,
Such ligaments as form the-fides of cavities, have nu¬
merous orifices of their arteries opening upon their inter¬
nal furface, which keep it always moift: If we rub off
that moifture, -and then prefs the ligament, we. can fee
the liquor ouzing out from fmall pores; and wc .can
Vox. I. No. 7*- 3
r O M Y. 149
force thin liquors, injcdled by the arteries, into the cari-:
ties formed by ligaments.
Thefe exhalent arteries muft have correfponding ab-
forbent veins, otherwife the cavities would foou be too
full of liquor.
Ligaments then muft be fubjedt to the difeafes com¬
mon to other parts, where there is a circulation of fluids,
allowance always being made for the fixe of veffels, na¬
ture of the fluids, and firmnefs of the texture of each
part.
Some authors have alledged, that ligaments are infen-
fible, and confequently that theyhave no nerves. But
the violent racking pain felt on the leaft motion of a
joint labouring under a rheumatifm, the feat of which
difeafe feems often to be in the ligaments, and the infuf-
ferable torture occafioned by inck'ions of ligaments, and
by a colledfion of acrid matter in a joint, or by tophi in
the gout, would perfuade us, that they are abundantly
fupplied with nerves.
The ligaments which connect the moveable bones
commonly rife from the conjundtion of the epiphyfes of
the one bone, and are inferted into the fame place of
the ether; or where epiphyfes are not, they come out
from the cervix, and beyond the fupercilia of the arti¬
culated bones; and after fuch a manner, in both cafes,
as to include the articulation in a purfe or bag; with this
difference, depending , on their different motions, that
where the motion is only to be in two diredtions, the li¬
gaments are ftrongeft on thofe fides towards which the
bones are not moved; and when a great variety of mo¬
tions is defigned to be allowed, the ligaments are weak¬
er than in the former fort of articulations, and are near¬
ly of the fame ftrengjh all round.
Part of the capfuiar ligaments is compofed of the pe-
riofteum, continued from one bone to another, and their
.internal layer is continued on the parts of the bone or
cartilage v/hich the ligament includes.
Befides thefe common capfuiar ligaments of the joints,
there are particular ones in feveral places, either for
the firmer connedtion of the articulated bones, or for
reftraining and confining the motion to fome one fide;
fuch are the crofs and lateral ligaments of the knee, the
round one of the thigh, e-c.
From this account of the ligaments, we may conclude,
that, ceteris paribus, in whatever articulation the liga¬
ments are few, long, and weak, the motion is more free
and quick; but luxations happen frequently: And, on
the contrary, where the ligaments are numerous, fliort,
and ftrong, the motion is more confined ; but fuch a
joint is lefs expofed to luxatiens.—Whence we may
judge how neeeflary it is to attend to the different liga¬
ments, and the changes which have been made on thua
by a,luxation, when it is to be reduced.
Ligaments alfo fupply the place of bones in Lveral-ca-
fes to advantage : Thus the parE| in the pelvis arc more
fitfely fupported below by ligajj^s, than thqy could
have been by bone.—The ligar$n|s placed in the great
holes oLthe ofia innominata, and between the bones of
the fore-arm and leg, afford convenient origin to muf-
cles.—Immoveable bones are firmly connected by them;
t P p of
150 A N A T
of which the cbnjundHcfl of the os facrum and innomi-
natum is an example.—They afford a focket for move-
able bones to play in, as we fee part of the aftraga-
1ns does on the ligament ilretched from the heel-bone to
the fcaphoid.
Numerous inconveniencies may arife from too long or
Ihort, ftrong or weak, lax or rigid ligaments.
Cartilages are folid, fmooth, white elaltic fub-
ftances, between the hardnefs of bones and ligaments,
and covered with a membrane, named perichondrium,
which is of the lame ftru&ure and ufe to them as the pe-
riofteum is to the bones.
Cartilages are compofed of plates, which are formed
of fibres, difpofed much in the fame way as thofe of
bones are ; as might be reafonably concluded from obfer-
ving bones in a cartilaginous ftate before they offify, and
from feeing, on the other hand, fo many cartilages be¬
come bony. This may be ftill further confirmed, by
the exfoliation which cartilages are fubjedt to, as well as
bones.
The perichondrium of feveral cartilages, for example,
thofe of the ribs and larynx, has arteries which can be
equally well inje&ed with thofe of the periofteum.
The granulated flefh which rifes from the ends of me¬
tacarpal or metatarfal bones, when the cartilage exfoli¬
ates, after a finger or toe has been taken off at the firft
joint, is very fenlible, from which the exigence of nerves
in cartilages may be inferred.
While cartilages are in a natural ftate, it is to be re¬
marked, firft. That they have no cavity in their middle
for marrow. Secondly, That their outer furface is foft-
eft, which renders them more flexible. Thirdly, That
they do not appear to change their texture near fo much
by acids as bones do. And, laftly. That as the fpecific
gravity of cartilages is near a third lefs than that of
bones, fo the cohefion of their feveral plates is not fo
ftrong as in bones ; whence cartilages laid bare in wounds
or ulcers, are not only more Mable to corrupt, but exfo¬
liate much fooner than bones do.
Cartilages feem to be principally kept from offifying,
either by being fubjefted to alternate motions of flexion
and extenfion, the effefts of which are very different from
any kind of fimple prefiure, or by being conftantly moif-
tened: Thus, the cartilages on the articulated ends of
the great bones of the limbs, and the moveable ones
placed between the moving bones in fome articulations,
which are obliged to fuffer many and different flexions,
and are plentifully moiftened, fcarce ever change into
bone ; while thofe of the ribs and larynx are often of-
fified.
The cartilages fubfervient to bones, are fometimes
found on the ends of bones which are joined to no other;
but are never wanting on the ends, and in the cavities of
fuch bones as are defigned for motion.
The ufes of cartilages, fo far as they regard bones,
are, to allow, by their fmoothnefs, fuch bones as are de¬
figned for motion, to Aide eafily without detrition, while,
by their flexibility, they accommodate themfelves to the
feveral figures neceffary in different motions, and, by
their elafticity, they recover their natural pofition and
ihape as focn as the preflure is removed. 
O M Y. Fart I.
This fpringy force may alfo aflift the motion of the
joint to be more expeditious, and may render ftiocks in
running, jumping, fee. lefs. To thefe cartilages we
chiefly owe the fecurity of the moveable articulations ;
For without them the bony fibres would fprout out, and
intimately coalefce with the adjoining bone; whence a .
true anchylofis muft neceffarily follow ; which never fails
to happen when the cartilages are eroded by acrid mat¬
ter, or oflified from want of motion or defeft of liquor,
as we fee often happens after wounds of the joints, pai-
darthrocace, fcrophula, and fpina ventofa, or from old
age, and long immobility of joints. The moveable car¬
tilages interpofed in joints, ferve to make the motions
both freer and more fafe than they would otherwife be;
 Thofe placed on the ends of bones that are not ar¬
ticulated, as on the fpine of the 6s illium, bafe of the
fcapula, fee. ferve to prevent the bony fibres from grow¬
ing out too far.' Cartilages fometimes ferve as liga¬
ments, either to faften together bones that are immove-
ably joined, fuch are the cartilages between the os fa¬
crum and offa illium, the offa pubis, fee. or to connect
bones that enjoy manifeft motion, as thofe do which are
placed between the bodies of the true vertebrae, fee.-—
Cartilages very often do the office of bones to greater
advantage, than thefe laft could, as in the cartilages of
the ribs, thofe which fupply brims to cavities, fee.
Too great thicknefs or thinnefs, length or fhortnefs,
hardnefs or fupplenefs of cartilages, may therefore caufc-
great diforders in the body.
The liquor, which principally ferves to moiften the li¬
gaments and cartilages of the articulations, is fupplied
by glands, which are commonly fituated in the joint, after
fuch a manner as to be gently preffed, but not deftroyed
by its motion. By this means, when there is the great-
eft necefiity for this liquor, that is, when the moft fre¬
quent motions are peiformed, the greateft quantity of it
muft be feparated. Thtfe glands are foft and pappy, but
not friable : In fome of the large joints they are of the
conglomerate kind, or a great number of fmall glandules
are wrapt up in one common membrane. Their excre¬
tory duffs are long, and hang loofe, like fo many frin¬
ges, within the articulation ; which, by its motion and
preifure, prevents obftruffions in the body of the gland
or its exefetories, and promotes the return of this li¬
quor, when fit to be taken up by the abforbent velfels,
which muft be in the joints, as well as in the other cavi¬
ties of the body ; and, at the fame time, the preflure on
the excretory duffs hinders a fuperfluous unneceflary fe-
cretion, while the fimbriated difpofition of thefe excre-
tories does not allow any of the fecreted liquor to be
pulhed back again by thefe canals towards the glands.
Very often thefe fountains of flimy liquor appear only
as a net-work of veflels. Frequently they are almoft
concealed by cellular membranes containing the fat;—and
fometimes fmall fimple mucous folliculi may be feen.
The different joints have thefe organs in different
numbers and fizes; the conglomerate ones don’t vary
much, efpecially as to fituation, in the fimilar joints
of different bodies ; but the others are more uncer¬
tain.
Upon prefling any of thefe glands with the finger, one
can
Part I. A N A T
can fqueeza out of their excretories a mucilaginous li¬
quor, which fomewhat refembles the white o£ an egg,
or ferum of the blood ; but it is manifeftly fait to the
tafte. It does not coagulate by acids or by heat, as the
ferum does, but by the latter turns firll thinner, and,
when evaporated, leaves only a thin fait film.
The velfels which fupply liquors for making the fe-
cretion of this mucilage, and the veins which bring
back the blood remaining after the fecretion, are to be
feen without any preparation; and, after a tolerable
injedion of the arteries, the glands are covered with
them.
In a found date, we are not confcious of any fenfibili-
ty in thofe glands ; but, in fome cafes, when they in¬
flame and fuppurate, the molt racking pain is felt in
them : a melancholy, though a fure proof that they have
nerves.
Thefe mucilaginous glands are commonly lodged in a
cellulaV fubftance ; which is alfo to be obferved in other
parts of the bag formed by the ligaments of the articu¬
lation ; and contains a fatty matter, that muft necefiari-
ly be attenuated, and forced through the including mem¬
branes into the cavity of the joint, by the prelfure which
it fuffers from the moving bones.
After the liquor of the articulations becomes too thin
and unferviceable, by being conftantly pounded and rub¬
bed between the moving bones, it is reaffumed into the
mafs of blood by the abfoibcnt velfels.
S e c t. II. Of the Skeleton.
Among anatomifts, Skeleton is univerfally underflood
to fignify the bones of animals conne&ed together, after
the teguments, mufcles, bowels, glands, nerves, and vef-
fels are taken away.
A fkeleton is faid to be a natural one, when the bones
are kept together by their own ligaments ; and it is cal¬
led artificial, when the bones are joined with wire, or
any other fubflance which is not part of the creature to
which they belonged.
The human flceleton is generally divided into the
Head, the Trunk, the Superior and the Inferior
Extremities.
OF THE HEAD.
Bv the Head is meant all that fpheroidal part which
is placed above the firfl bone of the neck. It therefore
comprehends the cranium and bones of the face.
The cranium, helmet, or brain-cafe, confills of feveral
pieces, which form a vaulted cavity, for lodging and de¬
fending the brain and cerebellum, with their membranes,
veflels, and nerves.
. The cavity of the cranium is proportioned to its con¬
tents. Hence fuch a variety of its fize is obferved in
different fubjedts ; and hence it is neither fo broad nor
fo deep at its fore-part, in which the anterior lobes of
the brain are lodged, as it is behind, where the large
poflerior lobes of the brain, and the whole cerebellum,
are contained.
O M Y. 151
The external furface of the upper part of the.cranium
is very fmooth, and equal, being only covered with the
periofleum, (common to all the bones ; but in the fkull,
diftinguifhed by the name of pericranium), the thin front-
tal and occipital mufcles, their tendinous aponeurofis,
and with the common teguments of the body; while the
external furface of its lower part has numerous rifings,
deprefiions, and holes, which afford convenient origin
and infertion to the mufcles that are connedted to it, and
allow fafe paffage for the veffels and nerves that run
through and near it.
The internal furface of the upper part of the fkull is
commonly fmooth, except where the veffels of the dura
mater have made furrows in it, while the bones were
foft.- Surgeons ftiould be cautious when they trepan
here, left, in fawing or rafting the bone where fuch fur¬
rows are, they wound thefe veflels. In the upper part
of the internal furface of feveral fkulls, there are like-
wife pits of different magnitudes and figures, which feem
to be formed by fome parts of the brain being more luxu¬
riant and prominent than others. Where £hefe pits
are, the fkull is fo much thinner than, any where elfe,
that it is often rendered diaphanous, the two tables be¬
ing clofely compared without a diploe; the want of
which is fupplied by veflels going from the dura mater
into a great many fmall holes obfervable in the pits.— 
The knowledge of thefe pits fhould teach furgeons to faw
cautioufly and flowly through the external table of the
fkull, when they are performing the operation of the tre¬
pan; fince, in a patient whole cranium has thefe pits,
the dura mater and brain may be injured, before the in-
ftrument has pierced near the ordinary thicknefs of ;i
table of the fkull. The internal bale of the fkull is
extremely unequal for lodging the feveral parts and ap¬
pendices of the brain and cerebellum, and allowing paf¬
fage and defence to the veflels and nerves that go into,
or come out from thefe parts.
The bones of the cranium are compofed of two tables,
and intermediate cancelli, commonly called their diploe.
The external table is thickeft ; the inner, from its thin-
hefs and cqnfequent brittlenefs, has got the name of vi~
trea.
The diploe has much the fame texture and ufes in the
fkull, as the canceili have in other bones.
The diploe of feveral old fubjeefts is fo obliterated,
that fcarce any veftige of it can be feen; neither is it ob¬
fervable in fome of the hard craggy bones at the bale of
the fitu 11. Hence an ufeful caution to furgeons who truft
to the bleeding, want of refiftance, and change of found,
as certain marks, in the operation of the trepan, for
knowing when their inftrument has fawed through the
firft table, and reached the diploe.
The cranium confifts of eight bones, fix of which are
faid to be proper, and the other two are reckoned com¬
mon to it and to the face.—The fix proper are, the os
frontis, two ofla. parietalia, two ofla temporum, and the
os occipids. The common are, the os ethmoides, and
fphenoides.
The os frontis forms the whole fore-part of the vault;
the two offa parietalia form the upper and middle part of
it; the ofla temporum compofe the lower part of the
fides;
(ides; the os occipitls makes the whole hinder-part, and
fome of the bafe; the os ethmoides is placed in the fore¬
part of the bafe • and the os fphencides is in the middle
of it.
Thefe bones are joined to each other by five futures;
the names of which ate, the coronal, lambdoid, fagittal,
and two fcjuamous.
The coronal future is extended over the head, from
within an inch or fo of the external canthus of one eye,
to the like difiance from the other; which being near
the place where the ancients wore their vittae, coronas, or
garlands, this future has hence got its name.—-Though
the indentations of this future are confpicuous in its up¬
per part, yet an inch or more of its end on each fide has
none of them ; for it is fquamous and fmooth there.
The lambdoidal future begins fome way below, and
farther back than the vertex or crown of the head,
whence its two legs are ftretched obliquely downwards,
and to each fide, in the form of the Greek letter a, and
are generally faid to extend themfelves to the bafe of the
Ikull,
This future.is fometimes very irregular, being made
up of a great many fmall future's, which furround fo
many little bones that are generally larger and'more con¬
fpicuous on the external furface of the fkull than inter¬
nally. Thefe bones are generally called triquetra, or
Wormiana.
The fagittal future is placed longitudinally, in the
middle of the upper part of the fkull, and commonly ter¬
minates at the middle of the coronal, and of the lamb¬
doid futures; between which it is faid to be placed, as
an arrow is between the firing and bow.—However,
this future is frequently continued through the middle of
the os frontis, down to the root of the nofe ; which oft-
ener happens in women than men.
The fquamous agglutinations, or falfe futures, are one
on each, fide, a little above the ear, of a femicircular fi¬
gure, formed by the overlopping (like one fcale upon an¬
other) of the upper part of the temporal bones, on the
lower part of the parietal, where, in both bones, there
are a great many fmall rifings and furrows, which are in¬
dented into each other; though thefe inequalities do not
appear till the bones are fepantted
The bones of the fkull are joined to thofe of the face
by fchyndelefis and futures.—The fchyndelefis is in the
partition of the nofe. The futures faid to be common
to the cranium and face are five, viz. the ethmoidal,
fphenoidal, tranfverfe, and two zygomatic.—Parts how¬
ever of thefe futures are at the junction of only the bones
of the Ikull.
The' ethmoidal and fphenoidal futures furround the
bones of thefe names; and in forne places help to make,
up other futures, particularly the fquamous and tranf¬
verfe ; and, in other parts, there is but one future com¬
mon to thefe two bones.
The tranfverfe future is extended quite crofs the face,
from the external canthus of one orbit, to the fame place
of the other.
The zygomatic futures are one on each fide, being
fliort, and delating from above obliquely, downwards and
backwards,'to join aprocefs-of the cheek-bone to one of
O M Y, Part I.
the temporal bones, which advances towards the face;
fo that the two procelfes thus united, form a fort of
bridge or jugura, under which the temporal mufcle pafies;
on which account the procelfes, and futures joining them,
have been called zygomatic.
The advantages of the futures of the cranium are
thefe : i. That this capfula is more eafily formed and ex¬
tended into a fpherical figure, than if it had been one conti¬
nued bone. 2. That the bones which are at fome diftance
from each other at birth might then yield, and allow to the
head a change of fhape, accommodated to the palfage it is
engaged in. Whence, in hard labour of child-bed, the
bones of the cranium, inftead of being only brought into
contaft, are fometiraes made to mount one upon the o-
ther. 3. That the dura mater may be more firmly fu-
fpended by its proceffes, which infinuate themfelves into
this conjunction of the bones; for doing this equally,'
and where the greateft needfity of adhefion is, the fu¬
tures are difpofed at nearly equal diftances, and the large
refervoirs of blood, the finufes, are under or near them.
4. That fractures might be prevented from reaching fo
far as they would in a continued bonyTubfiance. 5. That
the connexion at the futures being capable of yielding,
the bones might be allowed to feparate; which has given
great relief to patients from the violent fymptoms which
they had before this feparation happened.
Having gone through the generfi firmfiure of the cra¬
nium, we now proceed to examine each bone of which
that brain-cafe confifis.
The Os Frontis has its name from its being the on¬
ly bone of that part of the face we call the forehead,
though it reaches a good deal further. It has fome re-
femblance in fiiape to the Ihell of the concha bivalvds,
commonly called the cockle ; for the greatefi part of it is
convex externally, and concave internally, v/ith a ferra-
ted circular edge; while the fmaller part has procefle?
and depreflions, which make it of an irregular figure.
The external furface of the os frontis is fmooth at its
upper convex part; but feveral precedes and cavities are
obfervable below: for, at each angle of each orbit, the
bone jutts out to form four procelfes, two internal, and
as many external; which, from this fituation, may well
enough be named angular. Between the internal and
external angular procefles of each fide, an arched ridge
is extended, on which the eye-brows are placed. Very
little above the internal end of each of thefe fuperciliary
ridges, a protuberance may be remarked, in moft Ikulis,
where there are large cavities, called finufes, within the
bone.—Betwixt the internal angular procelfes, a fmall
procefs rifesv which forms fome fliare of the nofe, and
thence is named «.;/?/. Some obferve a protuberant
part on the edge of the bone, behind each external an¬
gular procefs, which they call temporal procefles; but
thefe are inconfiderable. From the under part of the
fuperciliary ridges, the frontal bone runs a great way
backwards ; which parts may jufily enough be called or¬
bit ar procelfes. Thefe, contrary to the refi of this bone,
are concave externally, for receiving the globes of the
eyes, with their mufcles, fat, <bc.
In each of the orbitar procefles, behind the middle of
the fuperciliary ridges, a confiderable Cnuofity is obferved,"
where
Part I. ANA
where the glanduk innominata Galeni, or lachryma-
lis, is lodged.—Behind each internal angular procefs, a
fmall pit may be remarked, where the cartilaginous pully
of the mufculus obliquus major of the eye is fixed. 
Betwixt the two orbitar proceffes, there is a large difcon-
tinuation of the bone, into which the.cribriform part of
the os ethmoides is incafed.—The frontal bone frequent¬
ly has little caverns formed in it here where it is joined
to the ethmoid bone. Behind each external angular
procefs, the furface of the frontal bone is confiderably de-
prefied where part of the temporal mufcle is placed.
The foramina, or holes, obfervable on the external
furface of the frontal bone, are three in each fide. 
One in each fuperciliary ridge, a little removed from its
middle towards the nofe; through which a twig of the
ophthalmic branch of the fifth pair of nerves paffes out of
the orbit, with a fmall artery, from the internal carotid,
to be diftributed to the teguments and mufcles of the
forehead.—Thefe veflels in fome fculls make furrows in
the os frontis, efpecially in the bones of children ; and
therefore we ought to beware of tranfverfe incifions on
either fide of the os frontis, which might either open
thefe veffels or hurt the nerves, while they are yet in part
within the bone; for, when velfels are thus wounded, it
is difficult to flop the hsemorrhagy, becaufe the adhe-
fion of a part of the artery to the bone hinders its con-
tra&ion, and confequently ftyptics can have little ef-
fedt; the fides of the furrow keep off comprelfing fub-
flances from the artery; and we would wilh to Ihun cau¬
teries or efcharotics, becaufe they make the bone cari¬
ous.; and nerves, when thus hurt, fometimes produce
•violent fymptoms.—But we muft remark, that often,
inflead of a hole, a notch only is to be feen: Nay, in
fome fkulls, fcarce a veftige even of this is left; in others,
both hole and notch are obfervable, when the nerve and
artery run feparately. Frequently a hole is found on
one fide, and a notch on the other; at other times we
fee two holes; or there is a common hole without, and
two diftin<ft entries internally. Near the middle of the
infide of each orbit, hard by, or in the tranfverfe future,
there is a fmall hole for the paflage of the nafal twig of
the firft branch of the fifth pair of nerves, and of a
branch of the ophthalmic artery. This hole is fometimes
entirely formed in the os frontis ; in other Ikulls, the
fides of it are compofed of this laft bone, and of the
os planum. It is commonly known by the name of
orbitarium internum, though anterius fliould be ad¬
ded, becaule of the next, which is commonly omitted.
—This, which may be called orbitarium internum po-
Jierius, is fuch another as the former ; only fmaller, and
about an inch deeper in the orbit: through it a fmall
branch of the ocular artery paffes to the nofe.—Befides thefe
fix, there are a great number of fmall holes obfervable on
.the outer furface of this bone, particularly in the two
protuberances above the eye-brows. Moft of thefe pe¬
netrate no further than the finufes, or than the diploej
if the finufes are wanting. The place, fize, and number
of them, are however uncertain: They generally ferve
for the traufmilfion of fmall arteries or nerves.
The internal furface of the os frontis is concave, ex¬
cept at the orbitar proceffes, which ate convex, to fup-
Vol. I. No. 7.' 3
T O M Y. 153
port the anterior lobes of the brain. This furface is not
fb finooth as the external; for the larger branches of
the arteries of the dura mater make fome furrows in its
fides and back-parts. The finuofities from the luxuri¬
ant rifings of the brain, mentioned when defcribing the
general Aru&ure of the cranium', are often very obfer¬
vable on its upper part; and its lower and fore parts are
marked with the contorfions of the anterior lobes of the
brain. Through the middle of this internal furface,
where always in children, and fometimes in old people,
the bone is divided, either a ridge ftands out, to which
the upper edge of the falx is faftened, or a furrow runs,
in which the upper fide of the fuperior longitudinal finus
is lodged ; on both thefe accounts chirurgical authors
juftly difcharge the application of the trepan here.
Immediately at the root of this ridge or furrow there
is a fmall hole, which fometimes pierces through the firft
table, and, in other Ikulls, opens into the fuperior finus
of the ethmoid bone within the nofe. In it a little pro¬
cefs of the falx is lodged, and a fmall artery, and fome¬
times a vein, runs; and the fuperior longitudinal finus
begins here.—This hole, however, is often not entirely
proper to the os frontis; for in feveral Ikulls, the lower
part of it is formed in the upper part of the bafe of the
crifta galli, which is a procefs of the ethmoid bone.
The os frontis is compofed of two tables, and an in¬
termediate diploe, as the other bones of the cranium are;
and in a middle degree of thicknefs between the os oc-
cipitis and the parietal bones.
The diploe is alfo exhaufled in that part above the
eye-brows, where the two tables of the bone feparate,
by the external being protruded outwards, to form two
large cavities, called Jinus fronta'tes.—Thefe are divided
by a middle- perpendicular bony partition.—In fome
ikulls, befides the large perpendicular feptum, there are
feveral bony pillars, or fhort partitions, found in each
finus; in others thefe are wanting.—For the moft part
the feptum is entire ; at other times it is difcontinued,
and the two finufes communicate.—Each finus com¬
monly opens by a roundilh fmall hole, at the inner and
lower part of the internal angular procefles, into a finus
formed in the nofe, a; the upper and back part of the os
unguis; near to which there are alfo fome other fmall
finufes of this bone, the greater part of which open fe¬
parately nearer the feptum narium, and often they termi¬
nate in the fame common canal with the large ones.
In a natural and found ftate, thefe cavities are of con-
fiderable advantage; for the organ of fmelling being thus
enlarged, die effluvia of odorous bodies more difficultly
efcape it; and their impreffions being more numerous,
are therefore ftronger, and affedt the organ more. 
Thefe and the other cavities which open into the nofe,
increafe the found of our voice, and render it more me¬
lodious, by ferving as fo many vaults to refound the
notes. Hence people labouring under a coryza, or flop-
page of the nofe from any other caufe, when they are
by the vulgar, though folfely, faid to fpeak through
their nofe, have fuch a difagreeable harffi voice.—The li¬
quor feparated in the membrane of thefe finufes, drills
down upon the membrane of the nofe to keep it moift.
From the defeription of thefe finufes, it is evident,
f Q^q  fiow
154 AN* A
haw ufelefs, nay, how pernicious it mu ft be, to apply
trepan on this part of the fkull; for this inftrument, in-
ftead of piercing into the cavity of the cranium, wonld
reach no further than the finufes.
The upper circular part of the os frontis is joined to
the ofla parietalia, from one temple to the other, by the
coronal future. From the termination of the coronal fu¬
ture to the external angular proceffes, this bone is con-
nedted to the fphenoid by the fphenoidal future. At
the external canthi of the eyes, its angular precedes are
joined by the tranfverfe future to the olfa malarum, to
which it adheres one third down the outfide of the or¬
bits ; whence to the bottom of thefe cavities, and a little
up on their internal lides, thefe orbitar proceffes are con-
nefted to the fphenoidal bone by that fame future.—
On the inlide of each orbit, the orbitar procefs is indent¬
ed between the cribriform part of the ethmoid bone, and
the os planum and unguis.- The tranfverfe future af¬
terwards joins the frontal bone to the fuperior nafal pro¬
ceffes of the offa maxillaria fuperiora, and to the nafal
bones. And, laftly, its nafal procefs is connected to the
nafal lamella of the ethmoid bone.
The frontal bone ferves to defend and fupport the an¬
terior lobes of the brain. It forms a confiderable part
of the cavities that contain the globes of the eyes, helps
to make up the feptum narium, organ of Imelling,
From the defeription of the feveral parts, the other ufes
of this bone are evident.
In a ripe child, the frontal bone is divided through the
middle ; the fuperciliary holes are not formed ; often a
fmall round piece of each orbitar procefs, behind the fu¬
perciliary ridge, is not nffified, and there is no finus to be
feen within its fubftance.
Each of the two Os sa Parietaiia, or bones fer-
ving as walls to the encephalon, is an irregular fquare ;
its upper and fore fides being longer than the one behind
or below. The inferior fide is a concave arch ; the mid¬
dle part receiving the upper round part of the temporal
bone.—The angle formed by this upper fide and the fore
one, is lo extended, as to have the appearance of a pro-
cels.
The external furface of each os parietale is convex.
Upon it, fomewhat below the middle heighth of the
bone, there is a tranfverfe arched ridge, of a Whiter co¬
lour generally than any other part of the bone; from
which, in bones that have ftrong prints of mufcles, we
fee a great many converging furrows, like fo many radii
drawn from a circumference towards a centre. From
this ridge of each bone the temporal mufcle rifes; and,
by the preffure of its fibres, occafions the furrows juft
now mentioned.—Below thefe. We obferve, near the fe-
micirculaf edges, a great many rifings and depreffions,
which are joined to like inequalities on the infide of the
temporal bone, to form the fquamous future. The tem¬
poral bone may therefore ferve here as a buttrefs, to
prevent the lower fide of the parietal from ftarting out¬
wards when its upper part is preffed or ftruck.
Near the upper fides of thefe bones, towards the hind
part, is a fmall hole in each, through which a vein paffes
from the teguments of the head to the longitudinal finus.
—In feveral fkulls, one of the offa parietalia has not this
T O M Y. Part I.
hole ; in others, there are two in one bone ; and in fome
not one in either. Moft frequently this hole is through
both tables ; at other times the external table is only
perforated.—The knowledge of the courfe of thefe vel-
fels may be of ufe to furgeons, when they make any in-
cifion near this part of the head, left, if the veffels are
fafhly cut near the hole, they (brink within the fubftance
of the bone, and fo caufe an obftinate hsemorrhagy, which
neither ligatures nor medicines can flop.
On the inner concave furface of the parietal bones,
we fee a great many deep furrows, difpofed fomewhat
like the branches of trees: The furrows are largeft and
deepeft at the lower edge of each os parietale, efpecial-
ly near its anterior angle, where fometimes a full canal
is formed. They afterwards divide into fmall furrows,
in their progrefs upwards.—In fome (kulls a large fur¬
row begins at the hole near the upper edge, and divides
into branches, which join with thofe which come upwards,
(hewing the communications of the upper and lower vef¬
fels of the dura mater.—In thefe furrows we frequently
fee pallages into the diploe, On the infide of the upper
edge of the offa parietalia, there5 is a large finuofity, fre¬
quently larger in the bone of one fide than of the other,
where the. upper part of the falx is faftened, and the fu¬
perior longitudinal finus is lodged.—Generally part of the
lateral finufes makes a depreilion near the angle, formed
by the lower and pofterior fides of thefe bones ; and the
pits made by the prominent parts of the brain are to be
feen in no part of the (kull more frequent, or more
confiderable, than in the internal furface of the parietal
bones.
The offa parietalia are amongft the thinned bones of
the cranium; but enjoy the general ftru&ure of two ta¬
bles and diploe the completed, and are the moft equal
and fmooth.
Thefe bones are joined at their fore-fide t© the os
frontis by the coronal future ; at their long inferior an¬
gles, to the fphenoid bone, by part of the future of this
name ; at their lower edge, to the offa temporum, by the
fquamous future, and its pofterior additamentum ; be¬
hind, to the os occipitis, or offa triqoetra, by the lamb-
doid future ; and above, to one another, by the fagittal
future.
In a child born at the full time, none of the fides of
this bone are completed ; and there never is a hole in the
offified part of it near to the fagittal future.
The large unoffified ligamentous part of the craniuip
obfervable between the parietal bones, and the middle of
the divided os frontis of new-born children, called by the
vulgar the open of the head, was imagined by the anci¬
ents to ferve for the evacuation of the fuperfluous moi-
fture of the brain ; and therefore they named it bregma,
or the fountain; fometimes adding the epithet pulfatilh,
or beating, on account of the pulsation of the brain felt
through this flexible ligamento-cartilaginous fubftance.
Hence very frequently the parietal bones are called effa
bregmatis.
All the bregma is generally offified before feven years
of age. Several authors fay, they have obferved it un¬
offified in adults ; and phyficians, who order the applica¬
tion of medicines at the meeting of the coronal and iagit-
til
Part I, ANA T
lal futures, feem yet to think that a derivation of noxi¬
ous humours from the encephalon is more eafily procured
at this part than any other of the fltull; and that medi¬
cines have a greater effeft here, than elfewhere, in the
internal diforders of the head.
Ossa Temporum, fo named, fay authors, from the
hair’s firft becoming grey on the temples, and thus dif-
covering peoples ages, are each of them equal and fmooth
above, with a very thin femicircular edge ; which, from
the manner of its connection with the neighbouring bones,
is diftinguilhed by the name of os fquamofum.—Behind
this, the upper part of the temporal bone is thicker, and
more unequal, and is fometimes defcribed as a diftimSt
part, under the name of pars niammillans. Towards
the bafe of the fltull, the temporal bone appears very
irregular and unequal; and this part, inftead of being
.broad, and placed perpendicularly, as the others are, is
contracted into an oblong very hard fubftance, extended
horizontally forwards and inwards, which in its prog-refs
becomes fmaWer, and is commonly called os petrofum.
Three external procefles of each temporal bone are
generally defcribed.—The firfi, placed at the lower and
hind'part of the bone, from its refemblance to a nip¬
ple, is called maftoides, or mainmillaris. It is not folid,
but within is compofed of cancelli, or fmall cells, which
have a communication with the large cavity of the ear,
the drum; and therefore founds, being multiplied in this
vaulted labyrinth, are increafed, before they are applied
to the immediate organ of hearing. Into the maftoid
procefs, the ftenomaftoideus mufcle is inferted; and to
its back-part, where the furface is rough, the trachelo-
•maftoideus, and part of the fplenius are fixed.—About
an inch farther forward, the Jccond procefs begins to rife
out from the bone; and having its origin continued o-
bliquely downwards and forwards for fome way, it be¬
comes fmaller, and is ftretched forwards to join with the
os malae; they together forming the bony jugum, under
which the temporal mufcle pafles. Hence this procefs
has been named zygonuitic. Its upper edge has the
ffrong aponeurofis of the temporal mufcle fixed into it;
and its 'lower part gives rife to a fliare of the mafleter.—
The fore-part of the bafe of this procefs is an oblong
tubercle, which in a refcent fubjedt is covered with a
fmooth polilhed cartilage, continued from that which
lines the cavity immediately behind this tubercle. 
From the under craggy part of the os temporum, the
third procefs ftands out obliquely forwards. The fhape
of it is generally faid to referable the ancient ftylus ferip-
torius ; and therefore it is called the ft)Ivid procefs.
Several mufcles have their origin from this procefs, and
borrow one half of their name from it; zs fty'h-glcffiis,
fytc^hy'idcus, fiylo-pbaryngeus : to it a ligament of the
os hyoides is fometimes fixed; and another is extended
from it to the infide of the angle of the lower jaw.
This procefs is often, even in adults, not entirely oflified,
but is ligamentous at its root, and fometimes is compoftd
of two or three diftind pieces. ;Round the root of it,
efpecially at the fore-part, there is a remarkable rifing of
•the os petrofum, which fome have efteemed a procefs ;
-and, from the appearance it makes with the Ayliform,
have named it vaginalis. Others again have, under
o M Y. 155
the name of auditory procefs, reckoned among the ex¬
ternal procefles that femicircular ridge, which, running
between the root of the mafloid and zygomatic procefles,
forms the under part of the external meatus auditorius.
The finuofities or depreflions on the external furface
of each os temporum are thefe : A long fofla at the
inner and back part of the root of the mammary procefs,
where the pofterior head of the digaftric mufcle has its
origin.—Immediately before the root of the zygomatic
procefs, a confiderable hollow is left, for lodging the
crotaphite mufcle. Between the zygomatic, audito¬
ry, and vaginal procefles, a large cavity is formed;
through the middle of which, from top to bottom, a £f-
fure is obfervable, into which part of the ligament that
fecures the articulation of the lower jaw with this bone
is fixed. The fore-part of the cavity being lined with
the fame cartilage which covers the tubercle before it,
receives the condyle of the jaw; and in the back-part a
fmall fnare of the parotid gland, and a cellular fatty
fubftance, are lodged.—At the infide of the root of the
ftyloid apophyfe, there is a thimble-like cavity, where
the beginning of the internal jugular vein, or end of the
lateral finus, is lodged.—Round the external meatus au¬
ditorius, feveral finuofities are formed for receiving the
cartilages and ligaments of the ear, and for their firm
adhefion.
The holes that commonly appear on the outfide of
each of thefe bones, and are proper to each of them, are
five.—The /r/?, fituated between the zygomatic and ma¬
ftoid procefles, is the orifice of a large funnel-like canal,
which leads to the organ of hearing; therefore is called
jneatus auditorius ext emus. The jecond gives pafiage
to the portia dura of the feventh pair of nerves ; and,
from its fituation between the maftoid and ftyloid prAcefies,
is called foramen Jiylo mafioideum.—Some way before,
and to the infide of the ftyloid procefs, is the ‘thirdho\t;
the canal from which runs firfi upwards, then forwards,
and receives into it the internal carotid artery, and the
beginning of the intercoftal nerve ; where this canal is
about to make the turn forwards, one, or fometimes two
very fmall holes go off towards the cavity of the ear cal¬
led tynipanum: through thefe Valfalva affirms the pro¬
per artery or arteries of thateavity are fent.—On the an¬
terior edge of this bone, near the former, a fourth hole is
obfervable, being the orifice of a canal which runs out¬
wards and backwards, in a horizontal direclion, till it
terminates in the tympanum. This, in the recent fub-
jedf, is continued forward and inward, from the parts
which were mentionedjuft nowasits orifice in the flceleton,
to the fide of the' noftrils: being partly cartilaginous,
and partly ligamentous. The whole canal is named,
Iter a potato ad aurem, or Eufiochian tube.—On the
-external fide of the bony part of this canal, and a-top of
the, chink in the cavity that receives the condyle of the
lower jaw, is the courfe of the little nerve faid com¬
monly to be reflefted from the lingual branch of the fifth
pair, till it enters the tympanum, to run acrofs this ca¬
vity, and to have the name of chorda tympani. The
fifth hole is very uncertain, appearing fometimes behind
the maftoid procefs; fometimes it is common to the
temporal and occipital bones; and in feveral fculls there
\$6 A N A
is no fuch hole. The ufe of it, when found, is for the
tranfnhilion of a vein from the external teguments to
the lateral Gnus : But, in fome fubje&s, a branch of the
occipital artery paffes through this hole, to ferve the
back-part of the dura mater.
The internal furface of the offa temporum is unequal;
the upper circular edge of the. fquamous part having nu¬
merous fmall ridges and furrows for its conjumflion with
the parietal bones ; and the reft of it is irregularly mark¬
ed with the convolutions of the middle part of the brain,
and with furrows made by the branches of the arteries of
the dura mater.
From the under part of this internal furface, a larger
tranfverfe, hard,, craggy protuberance runs horizontally
inwards and forwards, with a (harp edge above, and two
flat Gdes, one facing obliquely forwards and outwards,
and the other as much backwards and inwards. To the
ridge between thefe two fldes, the large lateral procefs of
the dura mater is fixed. T*
Sometimes a fmall bone, akin to the fefamoid, is found
between the fmall end of this petrous procefs and the
fphenoid bone.
Towards the back-part of the infide of the os tem¬
porum, a large deep foffa is confpicuous, where the late¬
ral finus lies; and frequently on the top of the petrous
ridge, a furrow may be obferved, where a fmall finus is
lituated.
The internal proper foramina of each of thefe bones
are, firft, the internal meatus auditorius in the pofterior
plain fide of the petrous procefs. This hole foon divides
into two ; one of which is the beginning of the aquaedudt
of, Fallopius : the other ends in feveral very fmall canals,
that allow a paflage to the branches of the portio mollis
of the feventh pair of nerves, into the veftibule and
cochlea. Through it alfo an artery is fent, to be diftri-
buted to the organ of hearing. The fecond hole,
which is on the anterior plain fide of the craggy procefs,
gives pafl’age to a reflected branch of the fecond branch
of the fifth pair of nerves, which joins the portio dura
of the auditory nerve, while it is in the aquaeduft, fmall
branches of blood-veffels accompanying the nerves, or
palling through finaller holes near this one.—The palfage
of the cutaneous vein into the lateral finus, or of a
branch of the occipital artery, is feen about the middle
of the large fofla for that finus; and the orifice of the
canal of the carotid artery is evident at the under part
of the point of the petrous procefs.
The upper round part of the fquamous bones is thin,
but equal; while the low petrous part is thick and ftrong,
but irregular and unequal, having the diftin&ion of tables
and diploe confounded, with feveral cavities, procelfes,
and bones within its fubftance, which are parts of the
organ of hearing. See the defeription of the bones,
mufcles, 6r. of the ear, in part VI.
The temporal bones are joined above to the parietal
bones by the fquamous futures, and their pofterior addi-
tamenta: Before, to the fphenoid bone by the future of
that name; to the cheek-bones by the zygomatic futures :
Behind, to the occipital bone, by the lambdoid future
apd its additamenta; and they are articulated witli the
T O M Y. Part I.
lower jaw in the manner which fliall be deferibed when
this bone is examined.
Os QCcipitis, fo called from its fituation, is con¬
vex on,the outfide, and concave internally. Its figure is
an irregular fquare, or rather rhomboid; of which the
angle above is generally a little rounded; the two late¬
ral angles are more finiftied, but obtufe; and the lower
one is ftretched forward in form of a wedge, and thence
is called by fome the cuneiform procefs.
The external furface is convex, except at the cunei¬
form apophyfe, where it is flatted. At the bafe of this
triangular procefs, on each fide of the great hole, but
more advanced forwards than the middle of it, the large
oblong protuberances, named the condyles, appear, to
ferve for the articulation of this bone with the firft ver¬
tebra of the neck. The fmooth furface of each of thefe
condyloid procefles is longeft from behind forwards, . I
where, by their oblique fituation, they come much near¬
er to each other than they are at their back-part. Their
inner fides are lower than the external, by which they
are prevented from Aiding to either fide out of the cavi¬
ties of the firft vertebra.— Round their root a fmall de-
preflion and fpongy roughnefs is obfervable, where the
ligaments for furrounding and fecuring their articulations
adhere.—Though the motion of the head is performed
on the condyles, yet the centre of gravity of that globe
does not fall between them, but is a good way further
forward; from which mechanifm it is evident, that the
mufcles which pull the head back muft be in a conftant
ftate of contraftion: which is ftronger than the natural j
contraAion of the proper flexors, elfe the head would i
always fall forwards, as it does when a man is afleep, or
labours under a palfy, as well as in infants, where the
weight of the head far exceeds the proportional ftrength
.of thefe mufcles.
All round the great foramen the edges are unequal,
for the firmer adhefion of the ftrong circular ligament
which goes thence to the firft vertebra.—One end of each 1
lateral or moderator ligament of the head, is fixed to a
rough furface at the fore-part of each condyle, and the
perpendicular one is connected to a rough part of the
edge of the great hole between the two condyles.
On the inner furface of the os occipitis we fee two
ridges; one ftanding perpendicular, the other running
horizontally acrofs the firft. The upper part of the per- |
pendicular limb of the crofs, to which the falx is fixed, I
is hollowed in the middle, or often on one fide, for the
reception of the fuperior longitudinal finus, and the low¬
er part of it has the fmall or third procefs of the dura
mater faftened to it, and is fometimes hollowed by the
occipital finus. Each fide of the horizontal Jimb is made
hollow by the lateral finufes inclofed in the tranfverfe ;
procefs of the dura mater; the fofla in the right fide be¬
ing generally a continuation of the one made by the lon¬
gitudinal finus in the perpendicular limb, and therefore is
larger .than the left one. Round the middle of the
crofs there are four large depreflions feparated by its
.limbs; the two upper ones being formed by the back-
part of the brain, and the two lower ones by the cere¬
bellum. 'Farther forward than the laft mentioned de-
pre (lions.,
Part 1. ANA
preflions, is the lower part of the fofla for the lateral fi-
nus on each fide. The inner furface of the cuneiform
apophyfe is made concave for the reception of the me¬
dulla oblongata, and of the bafilar artery.—A furrow is
made on each fide, near the edges of this procefs, by a
finus of the dura mater, which empties itfelf into the
lateral finus.
The holes of this bone are commonly five proper, and
two common to it and to the temporal bones.—The fir ft
of the proper holes, called foramen magnum, from its
fize, is immediately behind the wedge-like procefs, and
allows a paflage to the medulla oblongata, nervi acceflb-
rii, to the vertebral arteries, and fometimes to the ver¬
tebral veins. At each fide of this great hole, near
its fore-part, and immediately above the condyles, we
always find a hole, fometimes two, which foon unite a-
gain into one that opens externally; through thefe the
ninth pair of nerves go out of the Ikull.—The fourth
and fifth holes pierce from behind the condyle of each
fide, into the foffie of the lateral finufes; they ferve for
the pafl'age of the cervical veins to thefe finufes. Oft.-
en one of thefe holes is wanting, fometimes both, when
the veins pafs through the great foramen. Befides
thefe five, we frequently meet with other holes near the
edges of this bone, for the tranfmifiion of veins; but
their number and diameter are very uncertain. The two
common foramina are the large irregular holes, one in
each fide, between the fides of the cuneiform procefs,
and the edges of the petrous bones. In a recent fubjeft,
a ftrong membrane runs crofs from one fide to the other
of each of thefe holes.
The occipital bone is among the thickeft of the cra¬
nium, though unequally fo; for it is ftronger above,
where it has no other defence than the common tegu¬
ments, than it is below, where, being prefied by the
lobes of the brain and cerebellum on one fide, and by
the adlion of the mufcles on the other, it is fo very thin,
as to be diaphanous in many fkulls.
The occipital bone is joined above to the ofla parieta-
lia and triquetra when prefent, by the lambdoid future;
—latefaliy to the temporal bones, by the additamenta of
the lambdoid future;—below to the fphenoid bone, by
the end of its cuneiform'procefs, in the fame way that
epiphyfes and their bones are joined. The os occipi-
tis is joined by a double articulation to the firft vertebra
of the neck, each condyle being received into a fuperior
oblique procefs of that vertebra.
Os Ethmoides, or the fieve-like bone, has got its
name from the great number of fmall holes with which
that part of it firft taken notice of is pierced. When
this bone is entire, the figure of it is not eafily deferi-
bed; but, by a detail of-its feveral parts, fome idea may
be afforded of the whole; and therefore we (hall diftin-
guifii it into the cribriform lamella with its procefs, the
nafal lamella, cellulae, and offa fpongiofa.
The thin horizontal lamella, is all (except its back-
part) pierced obliquely by a great number of fmall holes,
through which the filaments of the olfa&ory nerves pafs.
 From the middle of the internal fide of this plate,
a thick procefs rifts upwards, and, being higheft at the
fore-part, gradually becomes lower, as it. is extended
, ¥ol. I. No. 7. 3
T O M Y. 157
backwards. From fome refemblance which this procels
was imagined to have to a cock’s comb, it has been call¬
ed crifia galli. The falx is connected to its ridge, and
to the unperforated part of the cribriform plate. 
When the crifta is broke, its bafe is fometimes found to
be hollow, with its cavity opening into the nole.
From the middle of the outer furface of the cribri¬
form lamella, a thin folid plate is extended downwards
and forwards, having the fame common bafe with the
crifta galli. Generally it is not exa&ly perpendicular,
but is inclined to one fide or other, and therefore divides
the cavity of the nofe unequally. Its inclination to one
fide, and flexure in the middle, is fometimes fo great,
that it fills up a large (hare of one of the noftrils, and
has been miftook for a polypus there.—It is thin at its
rife, and rather ftill thinner in its middle; yet after¬
wards, towards its lower edge, it becomes thicker, that
its conjunction with the bones and middle cartilage of the
nofe might be firmer.
At a little diftance from each fide of this external pro¬
cefs, a cellular and fpongy bony fubftance depends from
the cribriform plate. The number and figure of the cells
in this irregular procefs of each fide, are very uncertain;
only the cells open into each other, and into the tavity
of the nofe : The uppermoft, which are below the aper¬
ture of the frontal finufes, are formed like funnels.  
The outer furface of thofe cells is fmooth and plain,
where this bone aflifts in compofing the orbit; at which
place, on each fide, it has got the name of os planum;
on the upper edge of which, a fmall notch or two may
fometimes be obferved, which go to the formation of the
internal orbitar holes.
Below the cells of each fide, a thin plate is extended
inwards, and then bending down, it becomes thick, and
of a fpongy texture. This fpongy part is triangular,
with a ftreight upper edge placed horizontally, an ante¬
rior one flanting from above, downwards and forwards,
and with a pendulous convex one below.i—The upper and
lower edges terminate in a fliarp point behind.—The fide
of this pendulous fpongy part next to the feptum narium
is convex, and its external fide is concave. Thefe two
proceffes of the ethmoid bone have got the name of ojj'a
fpongiofa, or turbinata fuperiora, from their fubftance,
figure, and fituation.
All the prominencies, cavities and meanders of this
ethmoid bone, are covered with a continuation of the
membrane of the noftrik, in a recent fubjeft. Its ho¬
rizontal cribriform plate is lodged between the orbitar
proceffes of the frontal bone, to which it is joined by the
ethmoid future, except at the back-part, where it is con-
nefted with the cuneiform bone, by a future common to
both thefe bones. Where the offa plana are contigu¬
ous to the frontal bone within the orbit, their conjumftion
is reckoned part of the tranfverfe future. Farther
forward than the ofla plana, the cells are covered by the
.offa unguis, which are not only contiguous to thefe cells,
but cannot be feparated fron) them, without breaking the
bony fubftance.—Below the offa unguis and plana, thefe
cells and offa fpongiofa are overlopped by the maxillary
bones. The cellular part of each palate-bone is con¬
tiguous to each os planum and ceils backwards.—The
f R r lower
158 ANA']
lower edge of the nafal perpendicular plate is received
into the furrow of the vomer. Its pofterior edge is
joined to the fore-part of the proceffus azygos of the
fphenoid bone. Its upper edge joins the nafal procefs
of the frontal and nafal bones, and its anterior one is
connected to the middle cartilage of the nofe.
From all which the ufes of this bone are evident, viz.
to fullain the anterior lobes of the brain; to give paflage
to the olfaflory nerves, and attachment to the falx; to
enlarge the oi gan of fmelling, by allowing the membrane
of the nofe a great extent; to ftraiten the paffage of the
air through the nofe, by leaving only a narrow winding
canal, on the fenfible membranous fides of which the fub-
ftances conveyed along with the air muft ftrike, to form
part of the orbit of the eyes and feptum narium; while
all its parts are fo light as not to be in hazard of fepara-
ting by their weight; and they are fo thin, as to form a
large furface, v/ithout occupying much fpace.
Os Spheno.ides, .or wcdge-like bone, fo called be-
caufe of its fituation in the middle of the bones of the
cranium and face, is of an irregular figure, and bears
fome faint refemblance to a bat with its wings extended.
When we view the external furface of the os fphenoi-
des, two or three remarkable procefifes from each fide of
it may be obferved; which are all of them again fubdivi-
ded.——The firft pair is the two large lateral proce/Tes
or wings 5 the upper part of each of which is called the
temporal procef, becaufe they join with the temporal
bones in farming the temples, and the feat for fome
fhare of the crotaphite mufcles. That part of the wings
which jutts out towards the infide, fomewhat lower than
the temporal apophyfes, and is fmooth and hollowed,
where it makes up part of the orbit, is thence named or-
litar procejjes. Behind the edge feparating thefe two
proceifes, there 'is often a fmall groove, made by a
branch of the fuperior maxillary nerve, in its paffage to
the temporal mufcle. The lowed: and back-part of each
wing, which runs out fliarp to meet the offa petrofa, has
been ftyled the fpinous procefs: from near the point of
which a fliarp pointed procefs is frequently produced
downwards, which fome call Jiyliform, that affords ori¬
gin to the ptery-ftaphylinus externus mufcle. From this
flyloid procefs a very fmail groove is extended along the
edge of the bone to the hollow at the root of the inter¬
nal plate of the following proceffes, which forms part of
the Euflachian tube.—The fecond pair of external pro-
ceffes of the cuneiform bone is the two which Hand out
almoft perpendicular to the bafe of the flcull. Each of
them has two plates, and a middle fofla facing backwards,
and are named pterygoid or aliform proceffej. The ex¬
ternal plates are broadeft, and the internal are longed.
From each fide of the external plates, the pterygoid
mufcles take their rife. At the root of each internal
plate, a fmall hollow may be remarked, where the muf-
culus ptery-daphylinus internus, or circumflexus palati,
rifes, and fome (hare of the cartilaginous end of the Eu-
ftachian tube reds; and, at the lower end of the fame
plate, is a hook-like riling or procefs, round which the
tendon of the lad named mufcle plays, as on a pulley.
 To thefe another pair may be added, to wit, the
little triangular thin procefs, which comes from each fide
O M Y. Part T.
of the body of the fphenoid bone, where the pterygoid
procefles are rifing from it, and are extended over the
lower part of the aperture of the finus,. as far as to join
the ethmoid bone, while their body hangs down into the
nares.—Befides thefe pairs of procefles, there is aiharp
ridge which flands out from the middle of its bafe : Be¬
caufe it wants a fellow, it may be called proceffus azygos.
The lower part of this procefs, where it is received into
the vomer, is thick, and often not quite perpendicular,
but inclining more to one fide than the other» The fore¬
part of this procefs, where it joins the nafal plate of th£
os ethmoides, is thin and ftreight.
The depreflions, finuofities, and foflae, on the extern
nal furface of this fphenoid bone, may be reckoned up
to a great number, viz. two on the temporal apophyfes
where the crotaphite mufcles lodge.—Two on the orbitar
procefles, to make Way for the globes of the eyes.——7
Two between the temporal and Ipinous procefles, for re¬
ceiving the temporal bones. Two between the plates
of the pterygoid procefles, where the mufeuli pterygoidei
interni and ptery-ftaphylini interni are placed! Two
between the pterygoid and orbitar procefles, for forming.
the holes common to this and to the cheek and maxillary
bones. Two on the lower ends of the aliform pro¬
cefles, which the palate-bones enter into. Two at the
roots of the temporal and pterygoid procefles, where the
largeft fliare of the external pterygoid mufcles have their ,
rife. Two at the fides of the proceflus azygos, for
forming part of the nofe, &c.
What was deferibed under the name of temporal and
fpinous proceffes on the outfide of the flcull, are likewife ’
feen on its infide, where they are concave, for receiving
part of the brain ; and commonly three apophyfes on the
internal furface of the fphenoid bone are oqly mentioned. f
 Two rifing broad from the fore-part of its body,
become fmaller, as they are extended obliquely back¬
wards, The third Handing on a long tranfverfe bafe,
near the back-part of the body of this bone, rifes nearly
ere£t, and of an equal breadth, terminating often in a
little knob on each fide. The three arc called cltnoid,
from fome refemblance which they were thought to have
to the fupporters of a bed. From the roots of the
anterior clinoid procefles, the bone is extended on each
fide outwards and forwards, till it ends in a fharp point,
which may have the name of the tranfverfe fpinous pro¬
cefles.. Between, but a little farther back than the
two anterior clinoid procefles, we fee a protuberance con-
fiderably fmaller than the poflerior clinoid procefs, but
of its lhape.—Another procefs from between the tranf¬
verfe procefles, often forces itfelf forwards into the os
ethmoides.
Within the fkufl, there are two finnofities in the in¬
ternal part of each wing of the fphenoid bone, for re¬
ceiving the. middle part of the brain. One between
the tranfverfe fpinous procefles, for lodging the part of
the brain where the crura mcdullae oblongatae are.—Im- :
mediately before the third or middle clinoid procefs, a
Angle pit generaliy may be remarked, from which a fofla
goes out on each fide to the holes through which the op¬
tic nerves pals. The "pit is formed by the conjoined op
tic nerves ; and in the fofia: thefe nerves are lodged, as
they
Part I. A N A r
they run divided within the fkull.—Between .that third
protuberance and the pofterior clinoid procefs, the larger
pit for the glandula pituitaria may be remarked. This
cavity, becaufe of its refemblance to a Turkilh faddle,
is always defcribed under the name of fella Turcica, or
ephippiuni. On the fides of the pollerior clinoid pro¬
cefs a folia, may be remarked, that flxetches upwards,
then is continued forwards along the fides of the fella.
Turcica, near to the anterior clinoid procefies, where a
pit on each fide is made. Thefe foilas point out the
tourfe of the two internal carotid arteries, after they
have entered the fkull.
The holes on each fide of the os fphenoides are fix pro¬
per, and three common.——The/r/? is the round one
immediately below the anterior clinoid proceffes, for the
paflage of the optic nerve, and of the branch of the in¬
ternal carotid artery that is fent to the eye.——The fe-
cond is tht foremen lacerum, or large flit between the
tranfverfe fpinous and orbitar proceffes : Through it the
third, fourth, the firfl branch of the fifth, and the greater
flrare of the fixth pair of nerves, and an artery from the
internal carotid, go into the orbit. Sometimes a fmall
branch of the external carotid enters near its end, to be
diftributed to the dura mater, and a vein, fome call it
the venous duCl, or Nuck's aquasdufl, returns through it
to the cavernous finus.— The {bird hole, fituated a
little below the one juft now defcribed, is called rolun-
dum, from its fliape. It allows paflage to the fecond
branch of the fifth pair of nerves, or fuperior maxillary
nerve, into the bottom of the orbit. The fourth is
th£ foramen ovale, about half an inch behind the round
hole. Through it the third branch of the fifth pair, or
inferior maxillary nerve, goes out; and fometimes a vein
from the dura mater pafles out here. Very near the
point of the fpinous procefs is the fifth hole of this bone f
It is fmall and round, for a paflage to the larged artery
of the dura mater, which often is accompanied with a
vein.- The Jixth proper hole cannot be well feen, till
the cuneiform bone is feparated from all the other bones
of the cranium ; for one end of it is hid by a fmall pro¬
tuberance of the internal plate of the jifterygoid procefs,
and by the point of the proceflus. petrofus of the temporal
bone. Its canal is extended above the inner plate of the
pterygoid procefs ; and where it opens into the cavity of
the nofe, it is concealed by the thin laminous part of
the palate-borie. Through it a confiderable branch of
the fecond branch of the fifth pair of nerves is refledted.
— Often in the middle of the fella Turcica, a fmall
hole or two pierce as far as the cellular fubftance of the
bone; and fonietimes at the fides of this fella, one or
more fmall holes penetrate into the fphenoidal finufes.
The firJl of the common holes is that unequal fiflure
at the, fide of the fella Turcica, between the extreme
point of the os petrofum and the fpinous procefs of the
cuneiform bone. The fecond common hole is the
large difeontinuation of the external fide of the orbit, left
between the orbitar procefles of the cuneiform bone, the
os maxi!lare, mala;, and palati. In this large hole the
fat for lubricating the globe of the eye and temporal
mufcle is lodged, and branches of the fuperior maxillary
nerve, with fmall arteries from the carotid and veins, pafs.
r O M Y. 159
—The third hole is formed between the bafe of this
bone and the root of the orbitar procefs of the palate-
bone of each fide. Through this a branch of the exter¬
nal carotid artery, and of the fecond branch of the fifth
pair of nerves, are allowed a paffage to the noftrils, arid
a returning vein accompanies them.
Under the fella Turcica, and fome way farther for¬
ward, but within the fubftance of the fphenoid bone, are
two finufes, feparated by a bony plate. Each of them
is lined with a membrane, and opens into the upper and
back part of each noftril by a round hole, which is at their
upper fore-part. This hole is not forrhed only by the
os fphenoides, v/hich has an aperture near as large as any
tranfverfe fedion of the finds, but alfo by the palate-
bones which are applied to the fore-part of thefe finufes,
and clofe them up, that hole only excepted* which was
already mentioned. Frequently the two finufes are of
unequal dimenfions, and fometimes there is orily one
large cavity, with an opening into one noftril.
As this bone is extremely ragged and unequal, fo its
fubftance is of very different thicknefs, being in fome
places diaphanous; in others it is of a middle thicknefs,
and its middle back-part furpaffes the greateft flrare of
the cranium in thicknefs.
The os fphenoides is joined, by its wings, to the pa¬
rietal bones above, to the os frontis and offa malarunri
before, to the temporal bones behind ;—by the fore-part
of its body and fpinous procefles, to the frontal and eth->
moid bones ;—by its back-part, behind the two finufes,
to the occipital, where it looks like a bone with the epi-
phyfes taken off;—to the palate-bones, by the ends
of the pterygoid prdeefles, and ftill riiore by the fore¬
part of the internal plates of the pterygoid procefles, and
of the finufes;—to the maxillary bones, by the fore-part
of the external pterygoid plates ;—to the vomer and na-
fal plate of the os ethmoides, by the proceffus azygos.
All thefe conjundtions, except the laft, which is a fchin-
dylefis, are faid to be by the future .proper to this bone;
though it is at firft fight evident, that feveral other fu¬
tures, as the tranfverfe, ethmoidal, <bc. are confounded
with it.
We fee now how this bone i$ joined to-all the
bones of the cranium, and to moft of the upper jaw.^
and therefore obtained the name of the wedge-like
bone.
The Face is the irregular pile of bones, compofing
the fore and under part of the head, which is divided
into the upper and lower maxillae or jaws.
The fuperior maxilla is the common defignation given
to the upper immoveable fliare of the face. The fliape
of the fuperior jaw cannot eafily be exprefled ; nor is it
necefla'ry, provided the ftiape and fituation of all the
bones which compofe it are defcribed. It is bounded
above by the tranfverfe future, behind by the fore-part of
the fphenoid bone, and below by the mouth.
The upper jaw confifts of fix bones on each fide, of
a thirteenth bone which has no fellow', placed in the mid¬
dle, and of fixteen teeth. The thirteen bones are, two
ofifa naji, two ofi'a unguis, two cjfa malarum, two oj]a
maxillaria, two oJJ'a palati, two ojfa fpongiofa inferior a,
and the vomer.
The
16<i
The ofla nafi are placed at the tipper part of the nofe;
—-the ofTa unguis are at the internal canthi of the orbits;
—OiTa malarum form the prominence of the cheeks p—of-
fa maxillaria form the fide of the nofe, with the whole
lower and fore part of the upper jaw, and the greateft
fhare of the roof of the mouth ;—ofla palati are fituated
at the back-part of the palate, noftrils, and orbit;—
bffa fpohgiofa are feeri in the lower part of the nares ;—
and the vomer helps to feparate thefe two cavities.
The bones of the upper jaw are joined to the bones
of the fkull by the fchindylefis and futures already de-
fcribed as common to the cranium and face, and they are
connected to each other by gomphofis and fifteen fu¬
tures.
The gomphofis only is where the teeth are fixed in
their fockets, and the fchindylefis is only where the edges
of the vomer are joined to other bones.
The firfi: is the anterior nafal, which is ftreight,
and placed longitudinally in the middle fore-part of the
nofe.
The fecond and third are the lateral nafal, which are
at each fide of the nofe, and almoft parallel to the firft
future.
Each of the two lacrymal is almoft femicircular, and
is placed round the lacrymal groove.
The fixth and feventh are the internal orbitar: each
of which is extended obliquely from the middle of the
lower fide of an orbit to the edge of its bafe.
The two external orbitars are continued, each from
the end of the internal orbitar, to the under and fore¬
part of the cheek. •
The tenth is the myjlachial, which reaches only from
the lower part of the feptum narium to between the two
middle dentes incifores.
The longitudinal palate future ftretches from the
middle of the foremoft teeth through the middle of all
the palate.
The tranfverfepalate one runs acrofs the palate, near¬
er the back than the fore-part of it.
Each of the two palato-maxillary is at the back-part
of the fide of each noftril.
The fifteenth is the fpinous, which is in the middle of
the lower part of the noftrils. This may perhaps be
rather thought a double fchindylefis.
Thefe futures of the face have not fuch confpicuous
indentations as thofe of the fkull have.
Ossa Nasi, fo named from their fituation at the root
of the nofe, are each of an irregular oblong fquare figure,
being broadeft at their lower end, narroweft a little
higher than their middle ; and becoming fomewhat larger
at the top, where they are ragged and thickeft, and have
a curvature forwards, that their connexion with the fron¬
tal bone might be ftrongey. Thefe bones are convex
externally, and thereby better refift any violence from
without; and they are concave internally, for enlarging
the cavity of the nofe.
The lower edge of thefe bones is unequal, and is
ftretched outwards and backwards, to join the cartilages
of the noftrils.—^Their anterior fide is thick, efpecially
above, and unequal, that their conjunction to each other
might be ftronger; and a fmall rifing may be remarked
Part I.
on their inner edge, where they are fuftained by the fep¬
tum narium. Their pofterior fide, at its upper half,
has externally a depreffion, where it is overlopped fome
way by the maxillary bones, while its lower half Covers
thefe bones: By which contrivance, they do not yield
eafily to preffure applied to their fore-part or fides.
A fmall hole is frequently to be obfervedon their ex¬
ternal furface, into which two, three, or four holes,
which appear internally, terminate for the tranfmiflion
of fmall veins; fometimes the holes go no further than
the cancetli of the bones.
The nafal bones are firm and folid, with very few cells
or cancelli in them.
They are joined above to the frontal bone, by the
middle of the tranfverfe future;—behind* to the maxil¬
lary bones, by the lateral nafal futures ;—below, to the
cartilages of the nofe;—before to one another, by the
anterior nafal future ;—internally, to the feptum narium.
Thefe bones ferve to cover and defend the root of the
nofe.
Ossa Unguis, or Lacrymalia, are fo named, be-
caufe their figure and magnitude are fomething near to
thofe of a nail of one’s fingure, and becaufe the tears pafs
upon them into the nofe.
Their external furface is compofed of two fmooth con¬
cavities and a middle ridge. The depreflion behind
forms a fmall (hare of the orbit for the eye-ball to move
on, and the one before is a deep perpendicular canal, or
foifa, larger above than below, containing part of the la¬
crymal fac and dud. This is the part that ought to be
pierced in the great operation for the fiftula lacrymalis.
—This fofla of the bone is cribriform, or has a great
number of fmall holes through it, that the filaments
from the membrane which lines it, infinuating tljemfelves
into thefe holes, might prevent a feparation of the mem¬
brane, and fecure the bone in its natural fituation. The
ridge between thefe two cavities of the os unguis, is the
proper boundary of the orbit at its internal canthus ; and
beyond which furgeons Ihould not proceed backwards in
performing operations here. The internal or pofterior'
furface of this bone confifts of a furrow in the middle of
two convexities.
The fubftance of the os unguis is as thin as paper,
and very brittle ; which is the reafon that thofe bones:
are often wanting in Ikeletons, and need little force to
pierce them in living fubjefts.
Each of thefe bones is joined, above, to the frontal
bone, by part of the tranfverfe future;—behind, to the
os planum of the ethmoid bone, by the fame future;— 1
before, and below, to the maxillary bone, by the lacry¬
mal future;—internally, the ofia unguis cover fome of
the finus ethmoidales.
Thefe unguiform bones compofe the anterior internal ’
parts of the orbits, lodge a lhare of the lacrymal fac and
dud!, and cover the eithmoid cells. 'Their fituation
and tender fubftance make a rafti operator in danger of
deftroying a confiderable fhare of the organ of fmelling,
when he is performing the operation of the fiftula lacry¬
malis.
Ossa Malarum are the prominent fquare bones
which form the cheek on each fide.——Before, their fur- "
face
ANATOMY.
Parti. ^ANATOM Y. 161
face is convex and fmooth ; backward, it is unequal and
concave, for lodging part of the crotaphyte mufcles.
The four angles of each of thefe bones have been
reckoned procefles by forae.- The one at the exter¬
nal canthus of the orbit, called the fuperier orbitar pro-
cefs, is the longeft and thickeft. The fecond termi¬
nates near the middle of the lower edge of the orbit in a
fharp point, and is named the inferior orbitar procefs.
s The third, placed near the lower part of the cheek,
and thence called maxillary, is the Ihortefl, and neareft
to a right angle. The fourth, which is called zygo¬
matic, becaufe it is extended backwards to the zygoma
of the temporal bone, ends in a point, and has one fide
ftreight, and the other flopping.—Between the two or¬
bitar angles there is a concave arch, which makes about
a third of the external circumference of the orbit, from
which a fifth procefs is extended backwards within the
orbit, to form near one third of that cavity ; and hence
it may be called the internal orbitar procefs.—From
the lower edge of each of the ofla malarum, which is
between the maxillary and zygomatic procefles, the maf-
fcter mufele takes its origin; and from the exterior part
of the zygomatic procefs, the mufculus dijlortor oris
rifes ; in both which places the furface of the bone is
rough.
On the external furface of each cheek bone, one or
more fmall holes are commonly found, for the tranfmif-
fion of fmall nerves, or blood-veflels from, andfometimes
into the orbit On the internal furface are the holes
for the pafl’age of the nutritious veflels. of thefe bones.
 A notch on the outfide of the internal orbitar pro¬
cefs of each of thefe bones aflifts to form the great flit
common to this bone and to the fphenoid, maxillary,
and palate-bones.
The fubftance of thefe bones is, in proportion to their
bulk, thick, hard, and folid, with fome cancelli.
Each of the ofla malarum is joined, by its fuperior and
internal orbitar procefles, to the os frontis, and to the
orbitar procefs of the fphenoid bone, by the tranfverfe
future. By the edge between the internal and infe¬
rior orbitar procefles, to the maxillary bone, by the in¬
ternal orbitar future.—By the fide between the maxilla¬
ry and inferior orbitar procefs, again to the maxi • try
bone, by the external orbitar future.—By the zygoma¬
tic procefs, to the os temporum, by the zygomatic fu¬
ture.
Ossa Maxillari4 Superiora, are the largeft
bones, and conflitute the far greater part of the upper
jaw.
The procefles of each cs maxillare may be reckoned
feven.—The firfl is the long nafal one at its upper and
fore-part, which is broad below, and turns fmaller, as it
rifes upwards, to make the fide of the nofe. At the
root of this, a tranfverfe ridge may be obferved within
the noftrils, which fupports the fore-part of the upper
edge of the os fpongiofum inferius.—The fecond is pro¬
duced backwards and outwards, from the root of the
nafal procefs, to form the lower fide of the orbit ; and
therefore may be called orbitar.—The edge of this orbi¬
tar procefs, and the ridge, of the nafal one, which is con¬
tinued from it, make a confiderable portion of the exter¬
nal circumference of the orbit.—From the proper orbi¬
tar procefs, a very rough triangular furface is extended
downwards and outwards, to be connedted to the cheek¬
bone •, and therefore may be called the malar procefs,
from the lowefl protuberant part of which fome ftiare of
the mafleter mufcle takes its rife. Behind the orbitar
procefs, a large tuberofity or bulge of the bone appears,
which is efleemed the fourth procefs. On the inter¬
nal part of this we often meet with a ridge, almoft of
the fame height with that in the nafal procefs, which
runs tranfverfely, and is covered by a fimilar ridge of
the palate-bone, on which the back-part of the upper
edge of the os fpongiofum inferius refts. The convex
back-part of this tuberofity is rough for the origin of
part of the external pterygoid mufcle, and more inter¬
nally is fcabrotis, where the palate and fphenoid bones
are joined to it. That fpongy protuberance at the
lower circumference of this bone, where the fockets for
the teeth are formed, is reckoned the fifth.—The fixth
is the horizontal plate, which forms the greater part of
the bafe of the noflrils, and roof of the mouth ; its up¬
per furface, which belongs to the noftrils, is very fmcoth,
but the other below is arched and rough, for the ftrong-
er adhefion of the membrane of the mouth, which is
ftretched upon it, and in chewing, fpeaking, <kc. might o-
therwife be liable to be feparated.—The feventh rifes
like a fpine from the inner edge of the Jaft, and forms a
finall part of the partition of the noftrils.
The depreflions in each maxillary bone are, i. Afinu-
ofity behind the orbitar procefs, made by the temporal
mufcle. 2. A pit immediately before the fame procefs,
where the origin of the mufculus elevator labiorum com¬
munis, and elevator labii fuperiorrs, with a branch of
the fifth pair of nerves, are lodged fecurely. 3. The
hollow arch of the palate. 4. The femicircular great
notch, or entry to the lower part of the noftrils, be¬
twixt the root of the nafal procefs and fpine of the pa¬
late-plate. 5. Sockets for the teeth : The number of
thefe fockets is uncertain. 6. The lacrymal fofla in the
nafal procefs, which afiifts the os unguis to form a paf-
fage for the- lacrymal dudt. Immediately on the oun
fide of this, there is a fmall depreflion, from which the
inferior or lefler oblique mufcle of the eye has its origin.
7. The canal on the upper part of the great tuberofity
within the orbit, which is almoft a complete hole ; in
this a branch of the fuperior maxillary nerve paflfes.—
Befides thefe, the fuperior furface of the great bulge is
concave, to receive the under part of the eye.'—Immedi¬
ately above the tranfverfe ridge in the nafal procefs, a
fmall hollow is formed by the os fpongiofum.
The holes of this bone are two pioper and two com¬
mon, which are always to be found, befides feveral o-
thers, whofe magnitude, number, <bc. are uncertain.—
The firft of the proper is the external orbitar, immedi¬
ately below the orbit, by which the infra-Orbitar branch
of the fecond branch of the fifth pair of nerves, and a
fmall artery, come out, after having pafied in the canal,
at the bottom of the orbit, deferibed Numb. 7. of the
depreflions.—The fecond is the foramen ineijivuin, juft
behind the fore-teeth, which, at its under part, is one
irregular hole common to both the' maxillary bones when
f S f they
i6z ANATOMY. Parti.
they are joined; but, as it afcends, foon divides into
two, three, or-fometimes more holes; fome of which
open into each noftril. Through them fmall arteries and
veins, and a twig of the fecond branch of the fifth pair of
nerves pafs, and make a communication between, or join
the lining coats ©f the nofe and mouth.
The firft common hole is that which appears at the
inner fide of the back-part of the tuberofity and of the
fockets of the teeth, and is formed by a fofla in this
bone, and a correfponding one in the os palati: through
it a nerve, which is a branch of the fecond branch of
the fifth pair, runs to the palate. The other com¬
mon hole is the great flit in the outfide of the orbit de-
fcribed already, as the fecond common hole of the fphe-
noid bone.
All the body of the maxillary bone is hollow, and
leaves a large finus akin to the frontal and fphenoid,
which is commonly, but unjuftly, called antrum High-
morian'um.—At the bottom of this cavity, we may oft¬
en obferve fome protuberances, in which the fmall points
of the roots of the teeth are contained.—This cavern
and the fockets of the teeth are often divided by the in-
terpofition only of a very thin bony plate, which is lia¬
ble to be eroded by acrid matter colle&ed in the antrum,
or to be broke in drawing a tooth. The fymptoms of a
colleftion of a matter here naturally lead us to the prac¬
tice of pulling out the teeth, and piercing through this
plate into the antrum, to procure an evacuation of the
collefted matter.
The maxillary finufes have the fame ufes as the fron¬
tal and fphenoidal; and the fituation of the finufes is
fuch, that the liquor drilling from them, from the cells
of the ethmoid and palate-bones, and from the lacrymal
dudls, may always moiften all the parts of the membrane
of the nares in the different fituations which the head
is in.
The fubftance of the ofla maxillaria is compadt and
' firm, except at the inferior procefles, in which the teeth
are lodged, where it is very fpongy.
The maxillary bones are joined above by the upper
ends of their nafal procefles to the os frontis, by the
tranfverfe future;—at the fides of thefeprocefles, to the
ofla unguis, by the lacrymal futures ;—to the nafal bones,
by the lateral nafal futures;—by their orbitar procefles,
to the cheek-bones, by the external orbitar futures ;—
by the internal fides of the internal orbitar proceffes, to
the ofla plana, by part of the ethmoidal future;—by
the back-part of the tuberofities, to the palate bones,
by the futurae palato-maxillares;—by the poflerior edges
of their palatine lamelhe, to the ofla palati, by the
tranfverfe palate-future;—by their nafal fpines, to the
vomer, by the fpinous future;—by their fockets, to the
teeth by gomphofis;—by the internal edge of the palate-
plate, to one another, by the longitudinal palate-future ;
on the upper and fore-part of which a furrow is left for
receiving the cartilage which forms the partition of the
noftrils; — between the fore-part of the noftrils and
mouth, to each other, by the myftachial future; —
fometimes they are connected to the ofla fpongiofa infe-
riora, by a plain concretion or union of fubitance.
Thefe bones form the greater part of the nofe and of
the roof of the mouth, and a confiderable ftiare of the
orbit. They contain fixteen teeth, give rife to mufcles,
tranfmiflion to nerves, &c. as mentioned in the deferip-
tion of their feveral parts.
Ossa Palati are commonly deferibed as two fmall
fquare bones, at the back-part of the palate or roof of
the mouth, though they are of much greater extent,
being continued up the back-part of the noitrils to the
orbit. Each palate-bone may therefore be divided into
four parts, the palate fquare bone, the pterygoid pro-
cefs, nafal lamella, and orbitar procefs.
The fquare bone is unequally concave, for enlarging
both the mouth and cavity of the nofe. The upper part
of its internal edge rifes in a fpine, after the fame man¬
ner as the palate-plate of the maxillary bone does, to be
joined with the vomer. Its anterior edge is unequally
ragged, for its firmer connection with the palate-procefs
of the os maxillare.—The internal edge is thicker than
the reft, and of an equal furface, for its conjunction with
its fellow of the other fide. Behind, this bone is
fomewhat in form of a crefcent, and thick, for the firm
connection of the velum pendulum palati; the internal
point being produced backwards, to afford origin to the
palato-ftaphylinus, or azygos-mufcle. This fquare
bone is well diftinguifhed from the pterygoid procefs by a
perpendicular fofl’a, which, applied to iuch another in
the maxillary bone, forms a paflage for the palatine
branch of the fifth pair of nerves; and by another fmall
hole behind this, through which a twig of the fame nerve
pafles.
The pterygoid procefs is fomewhat triangular, having
abroad bafe, and ending fmaller above. The back-part
of this procefs has three foflae formed in it; the two la¬
teral receive the ends of the two plates of the fphenoid
bone, that are commonly compared to a bat’s wing ; the
middle fofla makes up a part of what is commonly called
the foffa pterygoidea ; the fore-fide of this palatine pte¬
rygoid procefs is an irregular concave, where it receives
the back-part of the great tuberofity of the maxillary
bone. Frequently feveral final! holes may be obferved
in this triangular procefs, particularly one near the mid-
dle-of its bafe, which, a little above, communicates with
the common and proper holes of this bone already taken
notice of.
The nafal lamella of this bone is extremely thin and
brittle, and rifes upwards from the upper fide of the ex¬
ternal edge of the fquare bone, and from the narrow ex¬
tremity of the pterygoid procefs; where it is fo weak,
and at the fame time fo firmly fixed to the maxillary
bone, as to be very liable to be broken in feparating the
bones. From the part where the plate rifes, it runs
up broad on the infide of the tuberofity of the maxillary
bone, to form a confiderable ftiare of the fides of the
maxillary finus, and to clofe up the fpace between the
fphencid and the great bulge of the maxillary bone,
where there would otherwife be a large flit opening into
the noftrils. From the middle internal fide of this thin
plate, a crofs ridge, placed on fuch another of the maxil¬
lary bone, is extended; on it the back-part of the os
fpongiofum
Part F. A N A 1
fpongiofum inferius refts. Along the outfide of this
plate, the perpendicular fofla made by the palate-nerve
is obfervable.
At the upper part of this nafal plate, the palate-bone
divides into two procefles, which were already named or-
bilar;—between which and the body of the fphenoid
bone, that hole is formed, which was mentioned as the
laft of the holes common to the fphenoid bone. Some¬
times this hole is wholly formed in the os palati, by a
• crofs plate going from the one orbitar procefs to the o-
ther. A nerve, artery, and vein belonging to the no-
ftrils, pafs here.—The anterior of the two orbitar pro-
celfes is the largeft, and has its fore-part contiguous to
the back-part of the maxillary .finus, and its upper fur-
face appears in the bottom of the orbit, behind the back-
part of the os maxiilare and planum.—It has cells be¬
hind, refembling thofe of the ethmoid bone, to which it
is contiguous; it is placed on the aperture of the linus
fphenoidalis, fo as to leave only a round hole at its upper
fore-part.—The other part of the orbitar procefs is ex¬
tended along the internal fide of the upper back-part of
the maxillary tuberofity, to the bafe of the fphenoid bone,
between the root of the procelfus azygos and the ptery¬
goid procefs.
The palate-bones are joined to the maxillary, by
the fore-edge of the palate fquare-bone, by the tranf-
verfe palate-future :—By their thin nafal plates, and part
of, their orbitar procefl’es, to the fame bones, by the pa-
. lato-maxillares futures:—By their pterygoid procefl'es,
and back-part of the nafal plates, to the alas vefpertilio-
num, by the fphenoid future :—By the tranfverfe ridges
of the nafal plates, to the ofl'a fpongiofa inferiora, by
: contadt; hence frequently there is an intimate union of
the fubftance of thefe bones in old Ikulls : By the
orbitar procelfes, to the ofla plana and cellulae ethmoi-
deae, by the ethmoid future:——To the body of the
: fphenoid bone, by the fphenoid future :——By the inter¬
nal edge of the fquare-bones, to each other, by the lon¬
gitudinal palate-future; and by theirnafal Ipines, to the
vomer, by the fpinous future.
The palate-bones form part of the palate, nodrils, or¬
bits, and folfse pterygoidese, and they cover part of the
linus maxillares, fphepoidales, and ethmoidei.
Ossa Turbihata, or fpongiofa inferiors, refemble
the fuperior offa fpongiofa in fliape and fubftance, but
Jiave their anterior and upper edges contiguous to the
tranfverfe ridges of the nafa! procelfes of the maxillary
and palate-bones. From their upper ftreight edge,
two fmall proedfes Hand out: the pollerior, which is the
broadeft, defeends to cover fome of the antrum Highmo-
rianum; the anterior rifes up to join the os unguis, and
to make part of the lacrymal dudt.
Below the fpongy bones already mentioned, there are
t fome times two others, one in each noltril, which feem
to be a production of the tides of the maxillary finus
turned downwards. When this third fort of fpongy
bones is found, the middle one of the three in each no-
ftril is the largeft, and the loweft is the fmalleft. Be-
fides all thefe, there are often feveral other fmall bones
(landing out into the noftrils, that, from their lhape,
1 O M Y. 163
might alfo deferve the name of tu'rbinata, but are uncer¬
tain in their bulk, fttuation, and number.
They are joined to the olfa maxillaria, palati, and un-
gais, efpecially in old fubjeds.
Their ufe is, to ftraiten the noftrils, to afford a large
furface for extending the organ of .fmelling, to cover
part of the antra maxillaria, and to aflift in forming the
under part of the lacrymal dudfs, the orifices of which
into the nofe are concealed by thefe bones.
Vomer, or bone refembling a ploughfhare, is the
thirteenth of the upper jaw, without a fellow, forming
the lower and back-parts of the partition of the nofe.
The figure of this bone is an irregular rhomboid.—
Its fides are flat and finooth. Its pofterior edge ap¬
pears in an oblique direction at the back-part of the no¬
ftrils. The upper one is firmly united to the bafe of
the fphenoid bone, and to the nafal plate of the eth¬
moid; and, when it.can be got feparated, is hollow, for
receiving the proceffus azygos of the fphenoid. The
anterior edge has a long furrow in it, where the middle
cartilage of the nofe enters. The lower edge is firm¬
ly united to the nafal fpines of the maxillary and palate-
bones. Thefe edges of this bone are. much thicker
than its middle, which is as thin as the fineft paper.
Its lituation is not always perpendicular, but often in¬
clined and bended to one fide, as well as the nafal plate
of the ethmoid-bone.
The vomer is convex at its upper part, and then is
ftreight as it is extended downwards and forwards, where
it is compofed of two plates ; the edges of which have a
great number of fmall proceftes, difpofed fomewhat like
the teeth of a faw, but more irregularly, and feveral of
them are reflected back. Between thefe plates, a deep
foffa is left, which, fo far as the top of the curvature,
is wide, and has ftrong fides, for receiving the procefius
azygos of the fphenoid-bone. Beyond the arch for¬
wards, the foffa is narrower and ftiallower gradually to
the point of the bone, receiving for fome way the nafal
lamella ethmoidea, which is fo clofely united to the vo¬
mer, by the little proceffes piercing into its fubftance, as
.to prevent any feparation. The middle cartilage of the
nofe fills up what remains of the foffa at its fore-part.
 The pofterior edge of the vomer, which appears a-
bove the back-part of the palate-bones, is broader above;
but as it defeends forwards, becomes thinner, though it
is ftill folid and firm. The lower edge of this bone,
which refts on the nafal fpine of the palate and maxil¬
lary bones, has a little furrow on each fide, of a fmall
middle ridge, anfwering to the fpines of the bones of
different fides, and the interftice between them. This
edge and the upper one meet in the pointed fore-end of
this bone.
The body of the vomer has a fmooth furface, and fo¬
lid, but thin fubftance; and towards its fides, where it
is thickeft, fome cancelli may be obferved, when the
bone is broken.
It is joined above to the fphenoid and ethmoid bones,
and to the middle cartilage of the nofe, by fchindylefis;
—below, to the maxillary and palate-bones, by the fpi¬
nous future.
The
i6'4 A N A T
The vomer' divides the no Axils, enlarges the organ of
fmelling, by allowing place for expanding the membrane
of the nofe on its fides, and fafiains the palate-plates of
the maxillary and palate-hones.
Maxilla Inferior, the lower jaw, confifts only of
one moveable bone, and fixteen teeth incafedinto it.
This bone, which is fomewhat of the figure of the
Greek letter v, is fituated at the lower part of the face,
fo as its convex middle part is forwards, and its legs are
llretched back. It is commonly divided into the chin,
Tides, and proceffes.—The chin is the middle fore-part,
the extent of- which to each fide is marked on the exter¬
nal fnrface by the holes obfervable there, and internally,
by the beginning of an oblique ridge,—Beyond thefe,
the fides appear, and are continued till the bone, by
bending upwards, begins to form the proceffes.
On the fore-part of the chin, a tranlverfe ridge appears
in the middle, on each fide of which the mufculi quadra-
ti, or deprefforcs labii inferioris, and the levatcres labii.
inferioris, deprefs the bone: And below thefe prints, a
fmall riling may be obferved, where the depreffores com¬
mence.—On the back-part of the chin, fometimes three,
nlways two, fmall protuberances appear in the middle.
To the uppermoft, when it is feen, the frtenum of the
tongue is connedted. From the middle one, the mufculi
geniogloffi rife ; and from the lowed, the geniohyoidei
have their origin.
At the lower and fore-part of the external furface of
each fide of the lower jaw, a final! eminence may be
obferved, where the depreffor labiorum communis rifes.
Near the upper edge of the fide a, ridge runs length-ways,
to which the under part of the mufculus buccinator is
connedled. Internally, towards the upper edge of
each fide, another ridge appears, from which the mylo-
hyoidei have their origin, and to which the internal mem¬
brane of the gums adheres.
In the upper edge of both chin and fides are a great
many deep pits or fockets, for receiving the roots of the
teeth. The number and magnitude of thefe fockets are
various, becaufe of the different number, as well of the
teeth themfelves, as of their roots, in different people.
Thefe fockets in this lower jaw, as well as in the upper
one, are lefs deep as old age comes on; when freed from
the teeth by any means, they are fome time after filled
tip with an offeous net-work, which at laft becomes en¬
tirely folid, and as fmooth as any other part of the bone ;
fo that in a great many old jaws one cannot obferve a
veftige of the fockets : But then the jaw becomes lefs,
and much narrower.— Hence we may know why the chin
and nofe of edentulous people are much nearer than be¬
fore the teeth were loft : while their lips either fall in
towards the mouth, or ftand prominent forwards. 
When new teeth are protruded, new fockets are formed.
  The lower edge of the chin and fides is fmooth and
equal, and is commonly called the baje of the lower jaw.
 The ends of the bafe, where the jaw turns upwards,
are called its angles ; the external furface of each of
which has feveral inequalities upon it, where the maffe-
ter mufcle is inferted; as the internal furface alfo has,
where the pterygoideus internus is inferted, and a liga-
O M Y. Part I.
ment, extended from the ftyloid procefs of the temporal
bone, is fixed.
The proceffes are two on each fide. The anterior
ftiarp thin coronoid ones have the crotaphyte mufcles in¬
ferted into them. The pofterior proceffes, or con¬
dyles, terminate in an oblong fmooth head, fupported by
a cervix. The heads, whofe greateft length is tranfverfe,
and whofe convexity is turned forwards, are tipped with
a cartilage, as the articulated parts of all other moved
bones are.—The fore-part of the root and neck of thefe
condyloid proceffes are a little hollow and rough, where
the external pterygoid mufcles are inferted.
The holes of the lower jaw are two on each fide;
one at the root of the proceffes internally, where a large
branch of the third branch of the fifth pair of nerves en¬
ters with an artery, and a vein returns. A fmall fharp
procefs frequently jutts out backwards from the edge at
the fore-part of this hole, to which a ligament, extended
from the temporal bone, is fixed, which faves the nerve
and veffels from being too much preffed by the ptery¬
goid mufcles. From the lower fide of this hole, ei¬
ther a fmall fuperficial canal or a furrow defeends, where
a branch of the nerve is lodged, in its way to the mylo-
hyoideus mufcle and fublingual gland. The other
hole is external, at the confines of the chin, where
branches of the nerve and veffels come out, The ca¬
nal betwixt thefe two holes is formed in the middle of
the fubftance of the bone, and is pierced by a great num¬
ber of fmall holes by which the nerves and blood-veffels
of the cancelii and teeth pafs.
The lower jaw generally receives the roots of fixteen
teeth into its fockets, by gomphofis ; and its condyloid
proceffes, covered with cartilage, are articulated with
the temporal bones.
The Teeth are the hard white bodies placed in tire
fockets of both jaws. Their number is generally fix¬
teen above, and as many below; though fome people
have more, others have fewer.
The broad thick part of each tooth which appears
without the focket, is the bafe, or body. The fmall-
er proceffes funk into the maxillae, are the roots or fangs,
which become gradually fmaller towards the end fartheft
from the bafe, or are nearly conical, by which the fur¬
face of their fides divides the preffure made on the bafes,
to prevent the foft parts, which are at the fmall points
of the fockets, to be hurt by fuch preflure.
Without the gums the teeth are covered with no mem¬
brane, and they.are faid to have no proper periofteum
within the fockets ; but that is fupplied by the refleded
membrane of the gums ; which, after a good injeffion,
may be evidently feen in a young fubjeft, with the veffcls
from it penetrating into the fubftance of the teeth; and
it may be difeovered in any tooth recently pulled, by ma¬
cerating it in water. The adhefion of this membrane to
thefe roots is ftrengthened by the fmall furrows obfef-
vable on them.
Each tooth is compofed of its cortex, or enamel, and
an internal bony fubftance. The cortex has no cavity or
place for marrow; and is fo folid and hard, that favvs or
ides can with difficulty make imjufcffion on it, It is
thiekeft
Part I. A N A T
thickeft upon the baft, and gradually, as the roots turn
fmaller, becomes thinner. The fibres of this enamel
are all perpendicular to the internal fubftance, and are
{freight on the bafe, but at the fides are arched with a
convex part towards the roots; which makes the teeth
refift the compreflxon of any hard body between the jaws,
with lefs danger of breaking theft fibres, than if they had
been fituated tranfverftly. The fpongy fockets in which
the teeth are placed likewife ftrve better to prevent fuch
an injury, than a more folid baft would have done.
The bony part of the teeth has its fibres running
{height, according to the length of the teeth. When it
is expoftd to the air, by the breaking or falling off of
the hard cortex, it foon corrupts. And thence carious
teeth are often all hollow within, when a very fmall hole
appears only externally.
The teeth have canals formed in their middle, where¬
in their nerves and blood-vefftls are lodged; which they
certainly need, being conftantly walled by the attrition
they are fubjedled to in manducation, and for their fur¬
ther growth, not only after they firft appear? but even in
adults; as is evident when a tooth is taken out: For
then the oppofite one becomes longer, and thoft on each
fide of the empty focket turn broader; ft that when
the jaws are brought together, it is ftarce obftrvable
where the tooth is wanting.
The veflels are eafily traced ft long as they are in the
large canal, but can fcarce be obftrved in their diftribu-
tion from that to the fubftance of the teeth of adults.
  This plentiful fupply of veflels muft expoft the
teeth to the fame diftrders that attack other vaftular
parts.
Every root of each tooth has fudi a diftimft canal,
with vefftls and nerves in it. Theft canals in the teeth
with more than one root, come nearer each other, as
they approach the baft of the tooth : and at laft are
only ftparated by very thin .plate*, which being general¬
ly incomplete, allow a communication of all the canals ;
and frequently one common cavity only appears within
the baft, in which a pulpy fubflance, compoftd of nerves
and veffels, is lodged.
The entry of the canals for theft veflels is a fmall
hole placed a little to a fide of the extreme point of
each root; ftmetimes, efpecially in old people, this hole
is entirely cloftd up, and conftquently the nerves and
blood-veflels are deftroyed.
The teeth are ften for a confiderable time in form of
mucus contained in a membrane; afterwards a thin cor¬
tical plate, and feme few ofleous layers appear within
the membrane, with a large cavity filled with mucus in
the middle; and gradually this exterior (hell turns thick¬
er, the cavity decreafes, the quantity of mucus is leflen-
ed, and this induration proceeds till all the body is
formed; from which the roots are afterwards produced.
In young fubjeAs, different {lamina, or rudiments of
teeth, are to be obferved. Thoft next the gums hinder
ordinarily the deeper-ftated ones from making their way
out, while theft prevent the former from fending out
roots, or from entering deep into the bony-ftckets of
the jaws; by which they come to be Jcfs fixed.-
Children are ftldom born with teeth ; but at two
Vol. I. No. 7. 3
O M Y. 16$
years of age they have twenty; and their number does
not increaft till they are about ftven years old, when the.
teeth that firll made their way through the gums are
thruft out by others that have been formed deeper in the.
jaw, and fome more of the teeth begin to diftover them-
ftlves farther back in the mouth. About fourteen years
of age, fome more of the firll crop are Ihed, and the.
number is increafed. This {bedding of the teeth is of
good ufo ; for if the firft had remained, they would have
ftood at a great diftance one from another; becaufe the
teeth are too hard in their outer cruft, to increafe ft faff
as the jaws do. Whereas both the fecond layer, and the
teeth that come out late, meeting, while they are foft,.
with a confiderable refiftance to their growth in length,
from thofe fituated upon them, neceffarily come out broad,
and fit to make that clofe guard to the mouth, which
they now form.
The teeth are joined to the fockets by gomphofis, and
the gums contribute to fix them there ; as is evident by
the teeth falling out when the gums are any way de¬
ftroyed, or made too fpongy; as in the fcurvy or fali-
vations : Whence fome clafs this articulation with the
fyffarcofis.
The ufts of the teeth are to mafticate our ali¬
ment, and to affift us in the pronunciation of feveral
letters.
Though the teeth fo far agree in their ftrudture, yet,
becauft of fome things wherein they differ, they are
generally divided into three claffes, viz. incifores, canini,
and molares.
The incifores, are the four fore-teeth in each jaw, re¬
ceiving their name from their office of cutting our ali¬
ment ; for which they are excellently adapted, being each
formed into a {harp-cutting edge at their baft, by their
fore-fide turning inwards there, while they are flopped
down and hollowed behind; fo that they have the form
of wedges; and therefore their power of adling muft be
confiderably increafed.
The incifores of the upper jaw, efpecially the two
middle ones, are broader and longer generally than thoft
of the under jaw.
Canini, from the refemblance to dogs tufks, are one
on each fide of the incifores in each jaw. The two
in the upper jaw are called eye-teeth, from the commu¬
nication of nerves which is faid to be betwixt them and
the eyes.- The two in the lower jaw are named an¬
gular, or nvihe-teeth, becauft they fupport the angles of
the mouth.
The canini are broader, longer, and ftronger, than the
incifores. Their bafts are formed into a {harp edge,
as the incifores are ; only that the edge rifts into a point
in the middle.—;—Each of them has generally but one
long root, though fometimes they have two. The roots
are crooked towards the end. The canini of the up¬
per jaw are larger, longer, and with more crooked roots,
than thoft of the under jaw.
The dentes molares, or grinders, which have got their
name becauft they grind our food, are generally five in
each fide of each jaw; in all twenty. Their bafts are
broader, more ftabrous, and with a thinner cortical fub¬
ftance, than the other teeth. They have alfo more
f T t roots,
t66 A N A T
roots, and as thefe roots generally divaricate from each
other, the partitions of the fockets between them bear
a large (hare of the great preffure they, fuffer, and hin¬
der it to aft on their points.
The numerous roots of the dentes molares prevent
their loofening by the lateral preflurethey fuffer in grind¬
ing ; and as the fockets in the upper jaw are more fpon-
gy, and the teeth are more liable, by their fituation, to
fall out, the grinders there have more numerous and
more feparated roots than in the lower jaw.
According to the divifion made of the Ikeleton, we
fhould now proceed to the defcription of the trunk of the
body. But muft firft confider' a bone, which cannot well
be faid to belong to either the head or the trunk; nor is
it immediately joined to any other, and therefore is very
feldom preferved with flteletons.
The Os Hyoides, which is fituated horizontally
between the root of the tongue and the larynx. It is
properly enough named hyoides, from the refemblance it
bears to the Greek letter v, and may, for a clearer de-
mondration of its ftrufture, be diftinguilhed into its body,
cornua, and appendices.
The body is the middle broad part, convex before,
and hollow behind. The convex fore-part is divided
into two, by a ridge, into the middle of which the mylo-
hyoidei, and into the fides the ftylo-hyoidei, mufcles
are inferted. Above tlie ridge, the bone is horizontal,
but pitted in the middle by the infertion of the two ge-
nio-hyoidd mufcles, and a little hollowed more laterally
by the bafiogloffi. Below the ridge, it is convex, but
a little flatted in the middle by the flerno-hyoidei, and
pitted more externally by the coraco-hyoidei -The
concavity behind faces backwards and downwards to re¬
ceive the thyroid cartilage, when the larynx and the os
hyoides are pulled towards each other by the aftion of
the fterno-hyoidei and hyothyroidei mufcles ; and to its
upper edge, the ligamentous membranes of the epiglotis,
tongue, and thyroid cartilage, are fixed.
The cornua of the os hyoides are flretched backwards
from each fide of its body, where often a fmall furrow
points out the former feparation. Thefe cornua are
not always {freight, nor of equal length ; their two
plain furfaces {land obliquely flopping from above, out¬
wards and downwards. Into the external, the cerato
gloflus is inferted above, and the thyro-hyoideus mufcle
below ; and to the one behind, the ligamentous mem¬
brane of the tongue and larynx adheres. Each of the
cornua becomes gradually fmaller, as it is extended from
the bafe; but ends in a round tubercle, from which a
moveable cartilage ftands out, which is connefted to the
upper procefs of the cartilago thyroidea.
Where the body of the os hyoides joins on each fide
with its cornua, a fmall flyliform procefs, called appesi-
dtx, rifes upwards and backwards, into which the muf-
culi ftylo-hyoidei alteri, and part of the hyo-glofli muf¬
cles are fixed.
The fubftance of the os hyoides is cellular, but cover¬
ed with a firm external plate, which is of fufficient
ftrength to bear the aftions of fo many mufcles as are in¬
ferted into it.
It is not articulated with any bone of the body, ex-
O M Y. Part I.
cept by means of the mufcles and ligaments men¬
tioned .
The ufe of the os hyoides, is to ferve as a folid lever.
for the mufcles to aft with, in raifing or deprefling the
tongue and larynx, or in enlarging and diminilhing the
capacity of the fauces.
OF THE TRUNK.
The Trunk confifts of the fpine, pelvis, and
thorax.
The Spine is the long pile of bones extended from
the condyles of the occiput to the end of the rump. It
fomewhat refembles two unequal pyramids joined in a
common bafe. It is not, however, rtreight; for its up¬
per part being drawn backwards by ftrong mufcles, it
gradually advances forwards, to fupport the oefophagus,
veflels of the head, 6 c. Then it turns backwards, to
make place enough for the heart and lungs. It is next
bended forwards, to fupport the vifcera of the abdomen.
It afterwards turns backwards, for the enlargement of
the pelvis. And, laftly, it is reflefted forwards, for fu-
ftainirg the loweft great gut.
The fpine is commonly divided into true and falfe
vertebras; the former conftituting the long upper pyra¬
mid, which has its bafe bale below, while the falfe ver¬
tebrae make the {hotter lower pyramid, whofe bafe is
above.
The True Vertebrae are the twenty-four upper
bones of the fpine, on which the feveral motions of the
trunk of our bodies are performed; from which ufe they
have juftly got their name.
Each of thefe vertebrae is compofed of its body and
procefles.
The body is the thick fpongy fore-part, which is con¬
vex before, concave backwards, horizontal and plain in
moft of them above and below. Numerous fmall
holes, efpecially on the fore and back-part of their fur-
face, give paflage to their veflels, and allow the ligaments
to enter their fubflance. The edges of the body of
each vertebra are covered, efpecially at the fore-part,
with a ring of bone firmer and more folid than the fub¬
ftance of the body any where elfe. Thefe rings are of
great ufe in preventing the fpongy bodies from being
broken in the motions of the trunk.
Between the bodies of each two adjoining vertebras,
a fubftahce between the nature of ligament and cartilage
is interpofed; which feems to confift of concentrical
curve fibres, when it is cut horizontally; but when it is
divided perpendicularly, the fibres appear oblique andde-
cufliiting each other. The outer part of the interver¬
tebral ligaments is the moft folid and hard ; and they gra¬
dually-become fofter till they are almoft in the form of la
glairy liquor in the centre ; and therefore thefe fub-
ftances were not improperly called mucous ligaments by
the ancients. The external fibrous part of each is capa-
bleof being greatly extended, and of being comprefledinto
a very fmall fpace, whilft the middle fluid part is incom-
preflible, or nearly fo ; and the parts of this ligament
between the circumference and centre approach in their
properties to either, in proportion to their more folid
Part P -ANA
or more fluid texture. The middle point is therefore
fulcrum or pivot, on which the motion of a ball and
focket may be made, with fuch a gradual yielding of the
fubftance of the ligament, in whichever direction our
fpines are moved, as faves the body from violent Ihocks,
and their dangerous confequences. This ligamento-
cartilaginous fubftance is firmly fixed to the horizontal
fiyi-faces of the bodies of the vertebra, to conned! them,
irt which it is affifted by a ftrong membranous ligament,
which lines all their concave furface, and by ftill a
ftronger ligament, that covers all their anterior convex
furface.
From each fide of the body of each vertebra, a bony
bridge is produced backwards, and to a fide; from the
pofterior end of which, one flan ting procefs rifes and an¬
other defcends ; the fmooth, and what is generally the
flatteft fide of each of thefe four procefies, which are
called the is covered with a fmooth cartilage;
and the two lower ones of each vertebra, are_ fitted to,
and articulated with the two upper or afcending oblique
proceffes of the vertebra below, having their articular
ligaments fixed into the rough line round their edges.
From between the oblique procefles of each fide the
vertebra is ftretched out laterally into a procefs that is
named travfverfe.
From the back-part of the roots of the two oblique,
and of the tranfverfe procefs of each fide, a broad ob¬
lique bony plate is extended backwards, where thefe
meet, the fcventh procefs of the vertebra takes its rife,
and ftands out backwards: This being generally ftiarp
pointed, and narrow edged, has therefore been called
fpinal procefs ; from which this whole chain of bones
has got its name.
Befides the common ligament which lines all the in¬
ternal furface of the fpinal proceiTes, as well as of the
bodies, there are particular ligaments that connef! the
bony bridges and procefles of the contiguous vertebra to¬
gether.
The fubftance of the procefles is confiderably ftronger
and firmer, and has a thicker external plate than the bo¬
dies of the vertebra have.
The feven procefles form a concavity at their fore¬
part, which, joined to the one at the back-part of the
bodies, makes a great hole, and the holes of all the ver¬
tebras form a long large conduit, for containing the fpi¬
nal marrow. In the upper and lower edge of each la¬
teral bridge, there is a, notch. Thefe are fo adapted to
each other in the contiguous vertebra, as to form a
round hole in each fide between each two vertebra,
through which the nerves that proceed from the fpinal
marrow and its blood-veflels pafs.
The articulations then of thefe true vertebra are
plainly double; for their bodies are joined by the inter¬
vening cartilage above defcribed, and their oblique pro¬
cefles being tipped with cartilages, are fo connected by
their ligaments, as to allow a fmall degree of motion to
all fides.
The' true vertebra ferve to give us an erect pofture ;
to allow fufficient and fecure motion to the head, neck,
and trunk of the body, and to fupport and defend the
bowels, and other loft parts.
TOM Y.
Though the true vertebrae agree in the general ftruc-
ture which we have hitherto defcribed ; yet becaufe of
feveral fpecialities proper to a particular number, they
are commonly divided into three clafles, viz. cervical,
dorfal, and lumbar.
The cervical are the feven uppermoft vertebra ; which
are diftinguilhed from the reft by thefe marks. Their
bodies are fmaller and more folid than any others, and
flatted on the fore-patt, to make way for the oefophagus;
or rather this flat figure is owing to the preflure of that
pipe, and to the aftion of the long! colli and anterior
redti mufcles. They are alfo flat behind, where fmall
procefles rife, to which the internal ligaments are fixed.
 The upper furface of the body of each vertebra is
made hollow, by a flaming thin procefs which is raifed
on each fide:—The lower furface is alfo excavated, but
in a different manner; for here the pofterior edge is rai¬
fed a little, and the one before is produced a confider-
able way. Hence we fee how the cartilages between
thofe bones are firmly connedted, and their articulations
are fecure.
The cartilages between thefe vertebra are thick, e-
fpecially at their fore-part; which is one reafon why
the vertebra advance forward as they defcend, and have
larger motion.
The oblique proceffes of thefe bones of the neck more
juftly deferve that name than thofe of any other vertebra.
They are fituated flaming; the upper ones having their
fmooth and almbft flat furfaces facing obliquely back¬
wards and upwards, while the inferior oblique proceffes
have their furfaces facing obliquely forwards and down¬
wards.
The tranfverfe proceffes of thefe vertebra are framed
in a different manner from thofe of any other bones of
the fpine: For befides the common tranfverfe procefs
rifing from between the oblique proceffes of each fide,
there is a fecond one that comes out from the fide of the
body of each vertebra; and thefe two proceffes, after
leaving a circular hple for the paffage of the cervical ar¬
tery and vein, unite, and are confiderably hollowed at
their upper part, with rifing fides, to protedt the nerves
that pafs in the hollow; and at laft each fide terminates
in an obtufe point, for the infertion of raufcles.
The fpinal proceffes of thefe cervical bones ftand
nearly ftreight backwards, are fhorter than thofe of any
other vertebra, and are forked or double at their ends ;
and hence allow a more convenient infertion to mufcles.
So far moft of the cervical vertebra agree ; but they
have fome particular differences, which oblige us to con-
fider them feparatelyt
The firft, from its ufe of fupporting the head, has the
name of atlas-, and is alfo called eptflroplea, from the
motion it performs on the fecond.
The atlas,'Contrary to all the other vertebra of the
fpine, has no body; but, inftead of it, there is a bony
arch. In the convex fore-part of which, a fmall
rifing appears, where the mufeuli longi colli are inferr¬
ed ; and, on each fide of this protuberance, a fmall ca¬
vity may be obferved, where the redii interm minores
take their rife. The upper and lower parts of the
arch are rough and unequal, where, the ligaments that
168
conned this vertebra to the os occipitis, and to the fe-
cond vertebra, are fixed.——The back-part of tire arch
is concave, finooth, and covered with a cartilage, in a
recent fubjefi, to receive the tooth-like procefs of the
fecond vertebra. In a fn ft vertebra, from which the
fecond has been feparated, this hollow makes the pal-
fage for the fpinal marrow to feem much larger than it
really is : On each fide of it a fmall rough finuofity may
be remarked, where the ligaments going to the fides of
the tooth-like procefs of the following vertebra are faft-
ened ; and on each fide, a fmall rough protuberance and
depreflion is obfervable, where the tranfverfe ligament,
which fecures the tooth-like procefs in the finuofity, is
fixed, and hinders that procefs from injuring the medul¬
la fpinalis in the fleftioos of the head.
The atlas has as little fpinal procefs as body ; but in-
ftead thereof, there is a large bony arch, that the muf-
cles which pafs over this vertebra at that place might
not be hurt in extending the head.
The fuperior oblique proceffes of this atlas are large,
oblong, hollow, and more horizontal than in any other
vertebra. They rife more in their external than in¬
ternal brim; by which their articulations with the con¬
dyloid of the os occipitis are firmer. Under the ex¬
ternal edge of each of thefe oblique procefles, is the fof-
fa, or deep open channel, in which the vetebral arte¬
ries make the circular turn, as they are about to enter
the great foramen of the occipital bone, and where the
tenth pair of nerves goes out.- The inferior oblique
proceftes extending from within outwards and down¬
wards, are large, concave, and circular. So that this
vertebra, contrary to the other .fix, receives the hones
with which it is articulated both above and below.
The tranfverfe procefies here are not much hollowed
or forked, but are longer and larger than thofe of any
other vertebra of the neck, for the origin and infertion
of feveral mufcles.
The hole for the fpinal marrow is larger in this than
in any other vertebra, not only on account of the mar¬
row being largeft here, but alfo to prevent its being hurt
by the motions of this vertebra on the fecond one. 
This large hole, and the long traverfe procefles, make
this the broadeft vertebra of the neck.
The condyles of the os occipitis move forwards and
backwards in the fuperior oblique proceffes of this verte¬
bra; but from the figure of the bones forming thefe
joints, it appears, that very little motion can here be al¬
lowed to either fide ; and there muff be ffill lefs circular
motion.
The fecond vertebra colli is called dentata, from the
tooth-like procefs on the upper part of its body.
The body of this vertebra is fomewhat pyramidical,
being large, and produced downwards, efpecialiy at its
fore-fide, to enter into a 'hollow of the vertebra below ;
while the upper part has a fqjuare procefs with a fmall
point ftanding out from it. This it is that is imagined
to referable a tooth, and has given name to the verte¬
bra.—The fide of this procefs, on which the hollow of
the anterior arch of the firft vertebra plays, is convex,
Jmooth, and covered with a cartilage; and it is of the
lame form behind, for the ligament, which-is extended
Part I.
tranfverfely from one rough protuberance of the firft ver¬
tebra to the other, and is cartilaginous in the middle; to
move on it.
The fuperior oblique proceffes of this vertebra den-
tata are large, circular, very nearly in an horizontal po-
fition, and flightly convex, to be adapted to the inferior
oblique proceffes of the firft vertebra.
The tranfverfe proceffes of the vertebra dehtata are
Ihort, very little hollow'ed at their upper part, and not
forked at their ends; and the canals through which the
cervical arteries pafs, are reflefted outwards about the
middlfe fubftance of each procefs; fo that the courfe of
thefe veffels may be diredied towards the tranfverfe pro¬
cefles of the firft vertebra.
The fpinal procefs of this vertebra dentata is thick,
ftrong, and ftiort, to give fufficient origin to the mufeulf
redii majores, and obliqui inferiores, and to prevent the
contufion of thefe and other mufcles in pulling the head
back.
The third vertebra of the neck is by fome called axis;
but this name is applied to it with much lefs reafon than
to the fecond. This third, and the three below, have
nothing particular in their ftrudhire; but all their parts
come under the general defeription formerly given, each
of them being larger as they defeend.
The feveryh vertebra of the neck is near to the form
of thofe of the back, having the upper and lower furfaces
of its body lefs hollow than the others :—The oblique
proceffes are more perpendicular;—neither fpinal nor •
tranfverfe proceffes are forked.—This feventh and the
fixth vertebra of the neck have the hole in each of their
tranfverfe proceffes, more frequently divided by a fmall
crofs bridge, that goes between the cervical vein and ar¬
tery, than any of the other vertebrae.
The twelve dorfal may be diftinguiflied from the other
vertebrae of the fpine by the following marks.
Their bodies are of a middle fize, betwixt thofe of
the neck and loins;—they are more convex before than
either of the other two forts; and are flatted laterally
by the preffure of the ribs, which are inferted into fmaft
cavities formed in their fides. This flatting on their fides,
which makes the figure of thefe vertebras almoft an half
oval, is of good ufe; as it affords a firm articulation to
the ribs, allows the trachea arteria to divide at a fmall
angle, and the other large veffels to run fecure from the
adtion of the vital organs. Thefe bodies are more
concave behind than any of the other two clafies.  
Their upper and lower furfaces are horizontal.
The cartilages interpofed between the bodies of thefe
vertebras are thinner than in any other of the true verte¬
brae ; and contribute to the concavity of the fpine in the
thorax, by-being thinneft at their fore-part.
The oblique proceffes are placed almoft perpendicular;
the upper ones flaming but a little forwards, and the low¬
er, ones flaming as much backwards.—They have not as
much convexity or concavity as is worth remarking. 
Between the oblique proceffes of oppofite fides, feveral
ftiarp proceffes ftand out from the upper and lower parts
of the plates v/hich join to form the fpinal procefs ; into
thefe ftiarp procefles ftrong ligaments are fixed, for con- .
neding the vertebras.
The
ANATOMY.
Part T. ANA
The tranfVerfe precedes of the dorfal vertebras are
long, thicker at their ends than in the middle, and turn¬
ed obliquely backwards.
The fpinal precedes are long, fmall pointed,' and Ho¬
ping downwards and backwards; from their upper and
back-part a ridge rifes, which is received by a fmall
channel in the fore-part of the fpinal procefs immediate¬
ly above, which is here conne&ed to it by a ligament.
The conduit of the fpinal marrow is here more circu¬
lar, but, correfponding to the fize of that cord, is fmall-
er than in any of the other vertebras, and a larger {hare
of the holes in the bony bridges, for the tranfmiffion of
the nerves, is formed in the vertebra nbove, than in the
one below.
The connexion of the dorfal vertebras to the ribs, the
thinnefs of their cartilages, the ereit fituation of the o-
blique proceffes, the length, Hoping, and oonnedion of the
fpinal proceHes, all contribute to reltrain thefe vertebrae
from mudi motion, which might diHurb the actions of
the hearted lungs; and, in confequence of the little
motion allowed here, the intervertebral cartilages fooner
flirivel, by becoming more folid : And therefore, the firfl:
remarkable curvature of the fpine obferved, as people
advance to old age, is in the leaft ftretched vertebra of the
back ; or old people firft become round-fliouldered.
The bodies of the four uppermoft dorfal vertebra de¬
viate from the rule of the vertebra, becoming larger as
they defeend; for the firft of the four is the largeft, and
the other three below gradually become fmaller, to allow
the trachea and large vefiels to divide at fmaller angles.
The two uppermoft vertebra of the back, inftead of
being very prominent forwards, are flatted by the adlion
of the mufeuli longi colli and redti majores.
The proportional fize of the two little depreflions in
the body of each vertebra, for receiving the heads of
the ribs, feems to vary in the following manner; the de-
prefiion on the upper edge of each vertebra decreafes as
far down as the fourth, and after that increafes.
The tranfverfe proceHes are longer in each lower ver¬
tebra to the feventh or eighth, with their fmooth fur-
faces, for the tubercles of the ribs, facing gradually
more downwards; but afterwards, as they defeend, they
become fhorter, and the fmooth furfaces are directed more
upwards.
The fpinous procefles of the vertebra of the back be¬
come gradually longer and more Hanting from the firft,
as far down as the eighth or ninth vertebra; from which
they manifeftly turn fliorter and more ereeft.
The firft vertebra, befides an oblong hollow in its low¬
er edge, that affifts in forming the cavity wherein the fe-
cond rib is received, has the whole cavity for the head
of the firft rib formed in it.
• The fecond has the name of axillary, without any
thing particular in its ftru&ure.
The eleventh often has the whole cavity for the ele¬
venth rib in its body, and wants the fmooth furface on
each tranfverfe procefs.
The twelfth always receives the whole head of the laft
rib, and has no fmooth furface on its tranfverfe procefl’es,
which are very fttort. The fmooth furfaces of its in¬
ferior oblique procefles face outwards as the lumbar do.
Vol. I. No. 8. 3
T O M Y. \69
 And we may fay in general, that the upper vertebra
of the back lofe gradually their refemblance to thofe of
the neck, and the lower ones come nearer to the figure
of the lumbar.
The loweft order of the true vertebra is the lumbar,
which are five bones, that may be diftinguiflied from any
others by thele marks: i. Their bodies, though of a
circular form at their fore-part, are fomewhat oblong
from one fide to the other; which may be occafioned by
the preflure of the large vefiels, the aorta and cava, and
of the vifeera. The epiphyfes on their edges are larger,
and therefore the upper and lower furfaces of their bo¬
dies are more concave than in the vertebra of the back.
2. The cartilages between thefe vertebra are much the
thickeft of any, and render the fpine convex within the
abdomen, by their greateft thicknefs being at their fore¬
part. 3. The oblique procefles are ftrong and deep;
thofe in oppofite fides being almoft placed in parallel
planes ; the fuperior, which are concave, facing in¬
wards, and the convex inferior ones facing outwards:
and therefore each of thefe vertebra receives the one a-
bove it, and is received by the one below ; which is not
fo evident in the other two clafles already deferibed.
4. Their tranfverfe procefies are fmall, long, and al¬
moft ereft, for allowing large motion to each bone, and
fufficient infertion to mufcles, and for fupporting and de¬
fending the internal parts. 5. Betwixt the roots of the
fuperior oblique and tranfverfe procefles, a fmail protu¬
berance may be obferved, where fome of the mufcles
that raife the trunk of the body are inferted. 6. Their
fpinal procefles are ftrong, ftreight, and horizontal, with
broad flat fides, and a narrow edge above and below;
this laft being deprefled on each fide by mufcles. And
at the root of thefe edges, we fee rough furfaces for fix¬
ing the ligaments. 7. The canal for the numerous
cords, called cauda equina, into which the fpinal mar¬
row divides, is rather larger in thefe bones than what
contains that marrow in the vertebra of die back.
8. The holes for the paflage of the nerves are more e-
qually formed out of both the contiguous vertebra than
in the other clafles; the upper one furnifties however the
larger {hare of each hole.
The thick cartilages between thefe lumbar vertebra,
their deep oblique procefies, and their eredt fpinal pro¬
cefles, are all fit for allowing large motion; though it
is not fo great as what is performed in the neck; which
appears from comparing the arches which the head de-
feribes when moving on the neck, or- the loins only.
The lumbar vertebra, as they defeend, have their ob¬
lique procefles at a greater diftance from each other, and
facing more backwards and forwards.
Both tranfverfe and fpinal prccefles of the middlemoft
vertebra of the loins are longeft and thickeft; in the ver¬
tebra above and below they are lefs: fo drat thefe pro¬
cefles of the firft and fifth are the leaft, to prevent their
ftriking on die ribs or ofla ilium, or their bruifing the
mufcles in the motions of the fpine.
The ephiphyfes round the edges of the bodies of the
lumbar vertebra are moft raifed in the two loweft, which
confequently make them appear hollower in the middle
than the others are.
t
Uu
The
i7o A N A T
The body of the fifth vertebra is rather thinner than
that of the fourth. The fpinal procefs of this fifth is
fmaller, and the oblique procefies face more backwards
and forwards than in any other lumbar vertebra.
The False Vertebrae compofe the under pyramid
of the fpine. They are diftinguilhed from tiie bones al¬
ready defcribed juftly enough by this epithet of falfe ;
becaufe, though each bone into which they can be di¬
vided in young people, refembles the true vertebras in
figure, yet none of them contribute to the motion of the
trunk of the body ; they being intimately united to each
other in adults, except\at their lower part, where they
are moveable; whence they are commonly divided into
two bones, os facrum and eoccygis.
Os Sacrum, is fo called from being offered in facri-
fice by the ancients, is of an irregular triangular Ihape,
broad above, narrow below, convex behind, for the ad¬
vantageous origin of the mufcles that move the fpine
and thigh backwards; and concave behind, for enlar¬
ging the cavity of the pelvis. Four tranfverfe lines
of a colour different from the reft of the bone, which
are feen on its fore-part, are the marks of divifion of
the five different bones of which it confifts in young per-
fons.
The fore-part of the os facrum is fmooth and flat, to
allow a larger fpace for the contained bowels, without a-
ny danger of hurting them.—The back-part of it is al-
moft ftreight, without fo large a cavity as the vertebrse
have.—The bridges between the bodies and proceffes of
this bone, are much thicker, and in proportion (horter,
than in the former clafs of bones.—The ftrength of thefe
crofs-bridges is very remarkable in the three upper
bones, and is well-proportioned to the incumbent weight
of the trunk of the body, which thefe bridges fuftain in
a tranfverfe, confequently an unfavourable, fituation,
when the body is eredt.
There are only two oblique proceffes of the os facrum;
one Handing out on each fide from the upper part of the
firft bone. Their plain ered furfaces face backwards,
and are articulated with the inferior oblique proceffes of
the laft vertebra of the loins, to which each of thefe pro¬
ceffes is conneded by a ftrong ligament, v/hich rifes from
a fcabrous cavity round their roots, where mucilaginous
glands are alfo lodged.—Inftead of the other oblique
proceffes of this bone, four rough tubercles are to be
feen on each fide of its furface behind, from which the
■mufcnlus facer has its origin.
The tranfverfe procefi'es here are all grown together
into one large ftrong oblong procefs on each fide ; which,
fo far as it anfwers to the firft three bones, is very thick,
and divided into two irregular cavities, by a long perpen¬
dicular ridge. The foremoft of the two cavities has
commonly a thin cartilaginous flcin covering it in the re¬
cent fubjed, and is adapted to the unequal protuberance
of the os ilium, and a ftrong ligament conneds the cir¬
cumference of thefe furfaces of the two bones. The
cavity behind is divided by a tranfverfe ridge into two,
where ftrong ligamentous firings that go from this bone
to the os ilium, with a cellular fubftance containing mu¬
cus, are lodged.
The tranfverfe proceffes of the two laft hones of the
O M Y. Part I.
os facrum are much fmaller than the former. At
their back-part, near their edge, a knob and oblong flat
furface give rife to two ftrong ligaments which are ex¬
tended to the os ifchium ; and are therefore called facro-
fciatic.
The fpinal proceffes of the three uppermoft bones of
the os facrum appear ftiort, (harp, and almoft ered, j
while the two lower ones are open behind; and fome-
times a little knob is to be feen on the fourth, though
generally it is bifurcated,' without the two legs meeting
into a fpine; in which condition alfo the firft is often to
be feen. The mufculus latiflimus, and longiffimus dorfi, |
facrolumbalis, and glutreus maximus, have part of their
origins from thefe'fpinal proceffes.
The canal between the bodies and proceffes of this j
bone, for the cauda equina, is triangular ; and becomes y
fmaller as it defcends, as the cauda alfo does. Be- I
low the third bone, this paflage is no more a complete
bony canal, but is open behind; and is only there de- Vi
fended by a ftrong ligamentous membrane ftretched over
it, which, with the mufcks that cover it, and are very |
prominent on each fide, is a fufficient defence for the i.
bundle of nerves within.
At the root of each oblique procefs of this bone, the .
notch is confpicuous, by which, and fuch another in the ’
laft vertebra of the loins, a paffage is left for the twenty- '|j
fourth fpinal nerve; and, in viewing the os facrum, j
either befpre or behind, four large holes appear in each I
fide, in much the fame height* as where the marks of >
the union of its feveral bones remain. Some of the lar- j
geft nerves of the body pafs through the anterior holes; fj
and fuperficial grooves running outwards from them in |
different directions, (hew the courfe of thefe nerves. 
From the intervals of thefe grooves, the pyriformh'rauS- |
cle chiefly rifes. The holes in the back-part of the i
bone are covered by membranes which allow fmall nerves .|
to pafs through them. The two uppermoft: of thefe j
holes, efpecially on the fore-fide, are the largeft; and .J
as the bone defcends, the holes turn fmaller. Some- |j
times a notch is only formed at the lower part in each J,
fide of this bone ; and in other fubje&s there is a hole 1
common to it and the os coccygis, through which the 3
twenty-ninth pair of fpinal nerves paffes ; and frequently |
a bony bridge is formed on the back-part of each fide by |
a procefs fent up from the back-part of the os coccygis, 9
and joined to the little knobs which the laft bone of the 3
os facrum has inftead of a fpinal procefs. Under this jl
bridge or jugum, the twenty-ninth pair of fpinal nerves jl
runs in its courfe to the common holes juft now de- :j;
fcribed.
The fubftance of the os facrum is very fpongy, with¬
out any confiderable folid external plates, and is lighter r
proportionally to its bulk than any other bone in the bo- f
dy; but is fecured from injuries by the thick mufcles
that cover it behind, and by the ftrong ligamentous ||
membranes that clofely adhere to it.
This bone is articulated above to the laft vertebra of }\
the loins, in the manner that the lumbar vertebras are m,
joined; and therefore the fame motions may be perform- j|
ed here. The articulation of the lower part of the os
facrum to the os ccccygis feems well enough adapted for
allowing -
Part I. ANA
allowing confiderable motion to this lafl: bone, was it not
much confined by ligaments. Laterally, the os facrum
is joined to the offa ilium by an immoveable fynchon-
drofis.
The ufes of the os facrum are, to ferve as the com¬
mon bafe and fupport of the trunk of the body, to guard
the nerves proceeding from the end of the fpinal mar¬
row, to defend the back-part of the pelvis, and to af¬
ford fufficient origin to the mufcles which move the trunk
and'thigh.
Os Coccygis, or rump-bone, is that triangular
chain of bones depending from the os facrum ; each bone
becoming fmaller as they defcend, till the laft ends almofl:
in a point. The os coccygis is convex behind, and con¬
cave before ; from which crooked pyramidal figure,
which was thought to referable a cuckow’s beak, it has
got its name.
This bone confilis of four pieces in people of middle
age:—In children, very near the whole of it is carti¬
lage : In old fubje&s, all the bones are united, and
become frequently one continued bone with the os fa¬
crum.
The highefl: of the four bones is the largefl, with
flioulders extended farther to each fide than the end of
the os facrum;—the upper furface of this bone is a little
hollow. From the back of that bulbous part called its
Jhoulders, a procefs often rifes up on each fide, to join
with the bifurcated fpine of the fourth and fifth bones
of the os facrum, to form the bony bridge mentioned in
the defcription of the os facrum. Immediately below
the (houlders of the os coccygis, a notch may be remark¬
ed in each fide, where the thirtieth pair of the fpinal
nerves palfes. The lower end of this bone is form¬
ed into a fmall head, which very often is hollow in the
middle.
The three lower bones gradually become fmaller, and
are fpongy; but are ftrengthened by a firong ligament
which covers and connedts them, Their ends, by
which they are articulated, are formed in the fame man¬
ner as thofe of the iirft bone are.
The lower end of the fourth' bone terminates in a
rough point, to which a cartilage is appended.
To the fides of thefe bones of the os coccygis, the
coccyg»i mufcles, and part of the levatores ani, and of
the glutaei maximi, are fixed.
The os, coccygis ferves to fuftain the inteftinum rec¬
tum ; and, in order to perform this office more effedtu-
ally, it is made to turn with a curve forwards; by which
alfo the bone itfelf, as well as the mufcles and tegu¬
ments, is preferred from any injury, when we fit with
our body reclined back/
The fecond part of the trunk of the Ikeleton, the
Pelvis, is the cylindrical cavity at the lower part of
the abdomen, formed by the os facrum, os coccygis,
and ofla innominata ; which laft therefore fall now in
cbfirfe to be examined.
The Ossa Innominata are two large broad bones,
which form thq fore-part and fides. of the pelvis, and the
lower part of the fides of the abdomen.—In children
each of thefe bones is evidently divided into three;
which are afterwards fo intimately united, that fcarce
T O M Y. 171
the leaft mark of their former feparation remains : not-
withftanding, they are defcribed as confilting each of
three bones, to wit, the os ilium, ifchium, and pubis.
Os Ilium, or haunch-bone, is fituated highefl: of the
three, and reaches as far down as one third of the great
cavity into which the head of the thigh-bone is received..
The external fide of this bone is unequally convex,
and is called its dorfum;—the internal concave furface
is by fome (but improperly) named cojla. The femi-
circular edge at the higheft part of this bone, which is
tipped with a cartilage in the recent fubjedt, is named
the [pine, into which the external or defcending oblique
mulcle of the abdomen is inferted; and from it the in¬
ternal afcending oblique and the tranfverfe mufcles of the
belly, with the glutaeus maximus, quadratus lumborum,
and latiffimus dorfi, have their origin.—The ends of the
fpine are more prominent than the furface of the bone be¬
low them ; therefore are reckoned procefies. From
the anterior fpinal procefs, the fartorius and fafcialis
mufcles have their rife, and the outer end of the doubled
tendon of the external oblique mufcle of the abdomen,,
commonly called Fallopius's or Psupart's ligament, is
fixed to it. The infide of the pofteiior fpinal pro¬
cefs, and of part of the fpine forward from that, is made
flat and rough where the facro-lumbalis and longiflimus
dorfi rife ; and to its outfide ligaments, extended to the
os facrum and tranfverfe procefles of the fifth and fourth
vertebra of the loins, are fixed. Below the anterior
fpinal procefs another protuberance hands out, which,
by its lituation, may be diflinguifhed from the former,
by adding the epithet of inferior, where the mufculus
re&us tibite has its origin.—Betwixt thefe two anterior
procefles the bone is hollowed where the beginning of
the fartorius mufcle is lodged. Below the pofterior
fpinal procefles, a fecond protuberance of the edge of
this bone is in like manner obfervable, which is clofely
applied to the os facrum.- Under this lafl: procefs a
confiderable large niche is obfervable' in the os ilium -r
between the fides of which and the ftrong ligament that
is ftretched over from the os facrum to the {harp-pointed
procefs of the os ifchium of the recent fubjedt, a large
hole is formed, through which the mufculus pyriformis,
the great fciatic nerve, and the poftericr crural veflels,
pais, and are protedled from compreflion.
The external broad fide, or dorfum of the os ilium, is
a little hollow towards the fore-part; farther back it is as
much raifed; thenis confiderably concave ; and,laltly, itis
convex. Thefe inequalities are occafioned by the actions,
of the mufcles that are fituated on this furface.—From
behind the uppermoft of the two anterior fpinal procdfes,
in fuch bones as are flrongly marked by the mufcles, a.
femicircular ridge is extended to the hollow paflage of
the fciatic nerve. Between the fpine and this ridge, the.
glutaens medius takes its rife. Immediately from above,
the lowefl: of the anterior fpinal procefles, a fecond ridge,
is ftretched to the niche. Between this and the former.
ridge, the glutaeus minimus has its origin. On the
outfide of the pofterior fpical precedes, the. dorfum of
the os ilium is flat and rough, where part of the mufcu¬
lus glutseus maximus and pyriformis rifes. The low-
eft part of this bone is the thickeft, and is formed into a*
large
i72 A N A T
large cavity with high brims, to affift in compofing the
great acetabulum.
The internal furface of the os ilium'is concave in its
broadeft fore part, where the internal iliac mufcle has its
origin, and fome lhare of the mteffnum ilium and colon
is lodged. From this large hollow, a fmall fmuofity is
continued obliquely forwards, at the inlide of the anterior
inferior fpinal procefs, where part of the pfoas and iliacus
mufcles, with the crural veffels and nerves, pafs. 
The large concavity is bounded below by a lharp ridge,
which runs from behind forwards , and, being continued
•with fuch another ridge of the os pubis, forms a line of
partition between the abdomen and pelvis. Into this
ridge the broad tendon of the pfoas parvus is inferred.
All the internal furface of the os ilium, behind this
ridge, is very, unequal: For the upper part is flat, but
fpongy, where the facro-lumbalis and longiffimus dorfi
rife. Lower down, there is a tranfverfe ridge from
which ligaments go out to the cs facrum. Immedi¬
ately below this ridge, the rough unequal cavities and
prominences are placed, which are exactly adapted to
thofe defcribed on the fide of the os facrum, In the
fame manner, the upper part of this rough furface is po¬
rous, for the firmer adhefion of the ligamentous cellular
fubftance ; while the lower part is more folid, and co¬
vered with a thin cartilaginous ikin, for its immoveable
articulation with the os facrum.'
Os Ischium, or hip-bone, is of a middle bulk between
the two other parts of the os innominatum, is fituated
lowed of the three, and is of a very irregular figure.—
Its extent might be marked by an horizontal line drawn
near through the middle of the acetabulum; for the up¬
per bulbous part of this bone forms fome lefs than the
lower half of that great cavity, and the fmail leg of it
rifes to much the fame height on the other fide of the
great hole common to this bone and the os pubis.
From the upper thick part of the os ifchium, a lharp
procefs, called by fome fpinous. Hands out backwards,
from which chiefly the mufculus coccygaeus and fuperior
gemellus, and part oFthe levator ani, rife; and the an¬
terior or internal facrofciatic ligament is fixed to it. 
Immediately below this procefs, a finuofity is formed for
the tendon of the mufculus obturator internus. In
a recent fubjedt, this part of the bone, which ferves as
a pully on which the obturator mufcle plays, is co¬
vered with a ligamentous cartilage, that, by two or
three fmall ridges, points out the interilices of the
fibres in the tendon of this mufcle. The outer fur¬
face of the bone at the root of this fpinous procefs is,
made hollow by the pyriformis, or iliacus externus
mufcle.
Below the finuofity for the obturator mufcle, is the
great knob or tuberofity, covered with cartilage or ten¬
don. The upper part of the tuberofity gives rife to
the inferior gemellus mufcle. To a ridge at the infide
of this, the external or pofterior facrofciatic ligament is
fo fixed, that between it, the internal ligament, and the
finuofity of the os ifchium, a pafiage is left for the inter¬
nal obturator mufcle. The upper, thick fmooth part
of the tuber, called by fome its dorfum, has two ob¬
lique impreffions on it. The inner one gives origin to
O M Y.. Part!.
the longhead of the biceps flexor tibies and ferninervofus
mufcles, and the femimembranofus rifes from the exte¬
rior one, which reaches higher and nearer the acetabu¬
lum than the other. The lower, thinner, more fca-
brous part of the knob which bends forwards, is alfo
marked with two flat furfaces, whereof the internal is
what we lean upon in fitting, and the external gives rife to
the larged head of the triceps addudtor femoris. Be¬
tween the external margin of the tuberofity, and the great
hole of the os innominatum, there is frequently an obtufe
ridge extended down from the acetabulum, which gives
origin to the quadratus femoris.—As the tuber advances
forwards, it becomes fmaller, and is rough, for the ori¬
gin of the mufculus tranfverfalis and erebtor penis -——
The fmall leg of it, which mounts upwards to join the
os pubis, is rough and prominent at its edge, where the
two lower heads of the triceps or quadriceps addu&or
femoris take their rife.
The upper and back part of the os ifchium is broad
and thick; but its lower and fore-part is narrower and
thinner.
The os ilium and pubis of the fame fide are the only
bones which are contiguous to the os ifchium.
The Os Pubis, or Jhare-bctie, is the lead of the
three parts of the os innominatum, and is placed at the
upper fore-part of it. The thick larged part of this
bone is employed in forming the acetabulum; from which,
becoming much fmaller, it is dretched inwards to its fel¬
low of the other fide, where again it grows larger, and
fends a fmall branch downwards to join the end of rhe fmall
leg of the os ifchium. The upper fore-part of each os
pubis is tuberous and rough where the mufculus rectus
and pyramidalis are inferted. From this a ridge is ex¬
tended along the upper , edge of the bone; in a continued
line with fuch another of the os ilium, which divides
the abdomen and pelvis. The ligament of Fallopius is
fixed to the internal end of this ridge, and the fmooth
hollow below it is made by the pfoas and iliacus internus
mufcles palling with the anterior crural velfels and nerves
behind the ligament.—-—Some way below the formef
ridge, another is extended from the tuberous part of the
os pubis downwards, and outwards towards the acetabu¬
lum ; between thefe two ridges the bone is hollow and
fmooth, for lodging the head of the pedtineus mufcle. -
Immediately below, where the lower ridge is to take the
turn downwards, a winding nitch is made, which is com¬
prehended in the great foramen of a Ikeleton, but is
formed into a hole by a fubtended ligament in the re¬
cent fubjedt, for the paffage of the poderior crural nerve,
an artery, and a vein. The internal end of the os
pubis is rough and unequal, for the firmer adhefion of
the thick ligamentous cartilage that connects it to its fel¬
low of the other fide:—The procefs which goes down
from that to the os ifchium is broad and rough before,
where the gracilis and upper heads of the triceps, or ra¬
ther quadriceps addudtor femoris, have their oiigin.
Betwixt the os ifchium and pubis a very large irregu¬
lar hole is left, which, from its refemblance to a door
or fliield, has been called thyroides. This hole is all,
except the nitch for the poderior crural nerve, filled up,
in a recent fubjeft, with a drong ligamentous membrane;
that
Pan!. A N A 1
that adheres very firiiily to its circumference. From
this membrane chiefly the two obturator mufcles, exter¬
nal and internal, take their rife. The great defign of
this hole, befides rendering the bone lighter, is to allow
a flrong enough origin to the obturator mufcles, and
fufficiem fpace for lodging their bellies, that there may
be no danger of difturbing the functions of the contained
vifcera of the pelvis by the aftions of the internal, nor
of the external being bruifed by the thigh-bone, efpecial-
ly by its lefler trochanter, in the motions of the thigh
inwards. --The bowels fometimes make their way
through the nitch for the veflels, at the upper part-of
this thyroid hole, which caufes a hernia in this place.
In the external furface of the ofla innominata, near
the outfide of the great hole, a large deep cavity is form¬
ed by all the three bones conjunftly: For the os pubis
conftitutes about one fifth ; the os ilium makes fomething
lefs than two fifths, and the os ifchium as much more
than two fifths. The brims of this cavity are very high,
and are 1HU much more enlarged by the ligamentous car¬
tilage," with which they are tipped in a recent fubjedt.
From this form of the cavity it has been called acetabu¬
lum ; and, for a diflinguifhing character, the name of the
bone that conftitutes the largeft (hare of it is added;
therefore acetabulum ojjis ifchii is the name this cavity
commonly bears. Round the bafe of the fupercilia
the bone is rough and unequal, where the capfular liga¬
ment of the articulation is fixed. The brims at the
upper and back-part of the acetabulum are much larger
and higher than any where elfe ; which is very neceflary
to prevent the head of the femur from flipping out of its
cavity at this place, where the whole weight of the bo¬
dy bears upon it, and confequently would otherwife be
conftantly in danger of thrufting it out. As thefe
brims are extended downwards and forwards, they be-
! come lefs; and at their internal lower part a breach is
made in them; from the one fide of which to the other,
a ligament is placed in the recent fubjedl:; under which a
I large hole is left, which contains a fatty cellular fubftanee
! and veflels. Befides this difference in the height of
the brims, the acetabulum is otherwife unequal: For
the lower internal part of it is deprefled below the carti¬
laginous furface of the upper-part, and is not covered
with cartilage; into the upper-part of this particular de-
preflion, where it is deepeft and of a femilunar form, the
' ligament of the thigh-bone, commonly called the round
j one, is inferted; while in its more fuperficial lower part
the large mucilaginous gland of this.joint is lodged. The
largeft fliare of this feparate depreflion is -formed in the
os ifchium.
The ofla innominata are joined at their back-part to
each fide of the os facrum by a fort of future, with a very
thin intervening cartilage, which ferves as lb much glue
to cement thefe bones together ; and ftrong ligaments go
l from the circumference of this unequal furface to con-
j nedt them more firmly. The ofla innominata are con-
| nefted together at their fore-part by the ligamentous car-
1 tilage interpofed between the two ofla pubis.—Thefe bones
3 can therefore have no motion in a natural ftate, except
i what is common to the trunk of the -body, or to the os
j facrum.
Vol.I. No.S.
’ O M Y. 173
Each os innominatum affords a focket (the acetabu-'
lum) for the thigh-bones to move in, and the trunk of
the body rolls here fo much on the heads of the thigh¬
bones, as to allow the moft confpicuous motions of the
trunk, which are commonly thought to be performed by
the bones of the fpine.
The pelvis then has a large open above where it is
continued with the abdomen, is ftrongly fenced by bones
on the fides, back, and fiore-part, and appears with a
wide opening below, in the Ikeleton; but, in the recent
fabjedt, a confiderable part of the opening is filled by
the facrofciatic ligaments, pyriform, internal obturator,
levatores ani, gemini, and coccygaei mufcles, which fup-
port and protedt the contained parts better than bones
could have done; fo that fpace is only left at the loweft:
part of it, for the large excretories, the vefica urinaria,
inteftinum redtum, and in - females, the uterus, to dif-
charge themfelves.
The Thorax, or chefi, reaches from below the neck
to the belly; and, by means of .the bones that guard it,
is formed into a large cavity : The figure of which is
fomewhat conoidal.
The bones which form the thorax are the twelve dor-
fai vertebree behind, the ribs on the fides, and the Jler-
nurn before.
The vertebree have already been deferibed is part of
the fpine.
The Ribs, or cofta, (as if they were cujlodes, or
guards, to thofe principal organs of the animal machine,
the heart and lungs), are the long crooked bones placed
at the fide of the cheft, in an oblique diredtion down-
wards in refpedt of the back-bone. Their number is
generally twelve on each fide; though frequently eleven
or thirteen have been found.
The ribs are all concave internally ; where they
are alfo made fmooth by the adtion of the contain¬
ed parts, which, on this account, are in no danger of
being hurt by them; and they are convex externally,
that they might refill that part of the preflure of the at-
mofphere, which is not balanced by the air within the
lungs, during infpiration. The ends of the ribs next
the vertebras are rounder than they are.after thefe bones
have advanced forwards, when they become flatter and
broader, and have an upper and lower edge, each of
which is made rough by the adtion of the intercoftal muf¬
cles, inferted into them.—The upper edge of the ribs is
more obtufe and rounder than the lower, which is depref-
fed on its internal fide by a long fofla, for lodging the
intercoftal veffels and nerves; on each fide of which
there is a ridge, to which the intcrcoftal mufcles are'
fixed. The fofla is not obfervable however at either end
of the ribs: for, at the peifterior or root, the vefiels have
not yet reached the ribs ; and, at the fore-end, they are
fplit away into branches, to ferve the parts between the
ribs.
At the poftericr end of each rib, a little head is
formed, which is divided by a middle ridge into two
plain or hollow furfaces ; the loweft: of which is the
broadeft and deepeft in moft of them. The two plains
are joined to the bodies of two different vertebras, and
the ridge forces itfelf into the intervening cartilage.—
3
174 ANA T
A little way from this head, we find, cm the external
furface, a fmall cavity, where mucilaginous glands are
lodged ; and round the head, the bone appears fpongy,
where the capfular ligament of the articulation is fixed.
•Y-—-Immediately beyond this a flatted tubercle rifes,
with a fmall cavity at, and roughnefs about its root, for
the articulation of the tib with the tranfverfe pfoeefs of
the loweft of the two vertebras, with the bodies of which
the head of the rib is joined.—Advancing further on
this external furface, we obferve in moft of the ribs an¬
other fmaller tubercle, into which ligaments which con-
peA the ribs to each other, and to the tranfverfe procef-
fes of the vertebras, and portions of the longiflimus dorfi,
are inferred. Beyond this the ribs are made flat by
the facro-Iumbalis mufele, which is inferred into the
part of this ]lat furface fanheit from the fpine, w here
each rib makes a confiderabla curve, called by fome its
angle. Then the rib begins to turn broad, and con¬
tinues fb to its anterior end, which is hoilow and fpongy,
for the reception of, and firm coalition with the carti¬
lage that runs thence to be inferted into the fcernum,
or to be joined with fome other cartilage.
To. the fore-end of each rib a long broad and ftrong
cartilage is fixed, and reaches thence to the fternum, or
is joined to the cartilage of the next rib. This courfe,
however, is hot in a flreight line with the rib ; for gene¬
rally the cartilages make a confiderable curve, the con¬
cave part of which is upwards ; therefore, at their infer-
tion into the fternum, they make an obtufe angle above,
and an acute one below.—Thefe cartilages, as all others,
are firmer and harder internally, than they are on their
external furface.
, The ribs then are articulated at each end, of which
the one behind is doubly joined to the vertebras ; for the
head is received into the cavities of two bodies of the
vertebras, and the larger tubercle is received into the de-
preflion in the tranfverfe procefs of the lower vertebra.
Kitherto we have laid down the general ftru&ure and
connexion of the ribs, and fnall next mark their differ¬
ences.
In viewing the ribs from above downwards, their fi¬
gure is fiill freighter; the uppermoft being the moft
crooked of any.—Their obliquity, in refpedt of the fpine,
increafes as they defeend; fo that though their diftan-
ces from each other is very little different at their back-
part, yet at their fore-ends the diftances between the
lower ones muft increafe.
The length of the ribs increafes from the firft and
uppermoft rib, as far down as the feventh •, and from
«hat to the twelfth, as gradually diminifhes. The fu-
perior of the two plain, or rather hollow furfaces, by
which the ribs are articulated to the bodies of the ver¬
tebrae, gradually increafes from the firft to the fourth
rib, and is diminilhed after that in each lower rib. 
The diftance of their angles from the heads always in-
ereafes as they defeend to the ninth,' becaufe of the
greater breadth of the facro-lumbalis mufcle.
The ribs are commonly divided into true and falfe.
The true coftas are the feven upper ones of each fide,
whofe cartilages are all gradually longer as the ribs defeend,
and are joined to the breaft-bone ; fo that being preffed
O M Y. Part I;
conftantly between two bones, they are flatted at both
ends, and are thicker, harder, and more liable to oifify,
than the other cartilages that are not fubject to fo much
preffure. Thefe ribs include the heart and lungs ; and
therefore are the proper or true cuftodes of life.
The .five inferior ribs of each fide are the falfe or ha¬
ft ard, whofe cartilages do not reach to the fternum 5
and therefore, wanting the refiftance at their fore-part,
they are there pointed; and, on this account, having
lefs preffure, their fubflance is fofter. The cartilages
of thefe falfe ribs are (horter as the ribs defeend.  
To all thefe five ribs the circular edge of the diaphragm
is connected ; and its fibres, inftead of being ftretched
immediately tranfverfely, and fo running perpendicular
to the ribs, are preffed fo as to be often, efpecially in
expiration, parallel to the plane in which the ribs lie.
The firft rib of each fide is fo fituated, that the flat
fidts are above and below, while one edge is placed in¬
wards, and the other outwards, or nearly fo; there¬
fore fufticient fpace is left above it for the fubclavian vef-
fels and mufcle; and the broad concave furface is oppo*
fed to the lungs : But then, in confequence of this fitu-
ation, the channel for the intercoftal veffels is not to be
found, and the edges are differently formed from all the
other, except the fecond; the lower one being rounded,
and the other fliarp. The head of this rib is not di¬
vided into two plain furfaces by a middle ridge, becaufe
it is only articulated with the firft vertebra of the tho¬
rax. Its cartilage is oflified in adults, and is united to
the fternum at right angles.—Frequently this firft rib has
a ridge riling near the middle of its pofterior edge, where
one of the heads of the fealenus mufcle rifes.- Far¬
ther forward it is flatted, or fometimes depreffed by the
clavicle.
The fifth, fixth, and feventh, or rather the fixth,
feventh, eighth, and fometimes the fifth, fixth, feventh,
eighth, ninth ribs, have their cartilages at leaft contigu¬
ous ; and frequently they are joined to each other by
crofs cartilages ; and moft commonly the cartilages of
the eighth, ninth, tenth, are connected to the former,
and to each other, by firm ligaments.
The eleventh, and fometimes the tenth rib, has no tu¬
bercle for its articulation with the tranfverfe procefs of
the vertebra, to which it is only loofely fixed by liga¬
ments,—The foffa in its lower edge is not fo deep as in
the ifpper ribs, becaufe the veffels run more towards the
interftice between the ribs.—Its fore-end is fmaller than
its body, and its fliort fmall cartilage is but loofely con¬
nected to the cartilage of the rib above.
The twelfth rib is the ftiorteft and ftreighteft.—Its
head is only articulated with the laft vertebra of the
thorax ; therefore is not divided into two furfaces.—
This rib is not joined to the tranfverfe procefs of the
vertebra, and therefore has no tubercle, being often pul¬
led neceffarily inwards by the diaphragm, which an arti¬
culation with the tranfverfe procefs would not have ah
lowed.—The foffa is not found at its under edge, be¬
caufe the veffels run below it.—The fore-part of this rib
is fmaller than its middle, and has only a very finall-
pointed cartilage fixed to it.—To its whole internal
fide the diaphragm is connected. :
Part I. A N A T
The Sternum, ox breaft-bone, is. the broad flat bone
or pile of bones, at the fore-part of the thorax.—In
adults of a middle age, it is compofed of three bones,
which ealily feparate after the cartilages connedting them
are deftroyed. Frequently the two lower bones are
found intimately united; and very often in old people,
the fternum is a continued bony fubftance from one end
to the other; though we ftill obferve two, fometimes
three, tranfverfe lines on its furface; which are marks of
the former divifions.
When we confider the fternum as one bone, we find it
broadeft and thickeft above, and becoming fmaller as it
defcends. The internal furface of this bone is fomewhat
hollowed for enlarging the thorax; but the convexity on
the. external furface is not fo confpicuous, becaufe the
fides are preffed outwards by the true ribs; the round
heads of whofe cartilages are received into feven fmooth
pits, formed in each fide of the fternum, and are kept
firm there by ftrong ligaments, which, on the external
furface, have a particular radiated texture.—The pits at
the upper part of the fternum are at the gfeateft diftance
one from another, and, as they defcend, are nearer; fo
that the two loweft are contiguous.
The tirft of the three bones that compofe the fternum,
all agree, is fomewhat of the figure of a heart, as it is
■commonly painted; only it does not terminate in a fharp
poinr. This is the uppermoft thickeft part of the
fternum.
The upper middle part of this firft bone, where it is.
thickeft, is hollowed, to make place for the trachea ar-
teria; though this cavity is principally formed by the
bone being raifed on each, fide of it, partly by the cla¬
vicles thrufting it inwards, and partly by the fterno-ma-
ftoidei mufcles pulling it upwards. On the outfide of
each tubercle, there is an oblong cavity, that, in view¬
ing it tranfverfely from before backv/ards, appears a little
convex: Into thefe glenae the ends of the clavicles are re¬
ceived.—In the fide of the under end of this firft bone,
the half of the pit for the fecond rib on each fide is
formed. The upper part of the furface behind is co¬
vered with a ftrong ligament, which fecures the cla¬
vicles.
The fecond or middle divifion of this bone, is much
longer, narrower, and thinner than the firft; but, ex¬
cepting that it is a little narrower above than below,
it is nearly equal all over in its dimenfions of breadth
or thicknefs. In the fides of it are complete pits for
the third, fourth, fifth, and fixth ribs,- and an half of
the pits for the fecond and feventh.
The third bone is much lefs than the other two, , and
• has only one half of the pit for the feventh rib formed
in it; wherefore it might be reckoned only an appendix
of the fternum.—. In young fubjeds it is always cartir
laginous, and is better known by the name of cartilago
xiphoidesy or enjiformis, than any other ; though the an¬
cients often called the whole fiernuvi enJifonue.-^Th'is
third bone is feldom of the fame figure, magnitude, or
fituation in any two fubjeds; for fometimes it is a plain
triangular bone, with one of the angles below, and per¬
pendicular to the middle of the upper fide, by which it
is conneded td the fecond bone, dn other people, the
O M Y, 175
point is turned to one fide, or obliquely forwards or back¬
wards.—Frequently it is all nearly of an equal breadth,
and in feveral fubjeds it is bifurcated; whence fome wri¬
ters give it the name of furcella, or furcula inferior;
or elle it is unoffified in the middle. In the greattft
number of adults it is oflified, and tipped with a carti¬
lage ; in fome, one half of it is cartilaginous; and in o-
thers, it is all in a cartilaginous ftate.—Generally feveral
oblique ligaments, fixed at one end to the cartilages oF
the ribs, and by the other to the outer furface of the xi¬
phoid-bone, conned it firmly to thofe cartilages.
The ufes of the fternum are, to afford origin and in-
fertion to feveral mufcles; to fuftain the mediaftinum,
to defend the vital organs, the heart and lungs, at the
fore-part; and, laftly, by ferving as a moveable fulcrum
of the ribs, to afiift confiderably in refpiration.
OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES.
Each fuperior extremity is divided into theJhoulder,
arm, fore-arm, and hand.
The Shoulder confifts of the clavicle and fcapnla
Clavicula, or collar-bone, is the long crooked bone,,
in figure like like an Italic /, placed almoft horizontally
between the upper lateral part of the fternum, and what
is commonly called the top of the (boulder, which, as a
clavis or beam, it bears off from the trunk of the body.
The clavicle, as well as other long round bones, is
larger at its two ends than in the middle. The end next
to the fternum is triangular: The angle behind is confi¬
derably produced, to form a (harp ridge, to which tho
tranfverfe ligament extended from one clavicle to the o-
ther is fixed.—The fide oppofite to this is fomewhat
rounded.—The middle of this protuberant end is as ir¬
regularly hollowed, as the cavity in the fternum for re¬
ceiving it is raifed; but, in a recent fubjedt, the irregu¬
lar concavities of both are fupplied by a moveable carti¬
lage, which is not only much more clofely connected
every where, by ligaments, to the circumference of the-
articulation, than thofe of the lower jaw are; but it
grows to the two bones at both its internal and external
ends ; its fubftance at the internal end being foft, but
very ftrong, and refembling the intervertebral cartilages.
From.this internal end the clavicle, for about two fifths
of its. length, is bended obliquely forwards and down¬
wards. On the upper and fore-part of this curvature a
fmall ridge is feen, with a plain rough furface before it;
whence the mufculus tterno-hyoideus and fterno-maftoi-
deus have in part their origin.—Near the lower angle, a
fmall plain furface is often to be remarked, where the firft
rib and this bone are contiguous, and are conneded by a
firm ligament.— From this a rough plain furface is ex¬
tended outwards, where the pedoral mufcle has part of
its origin. Behind, the bone is made flat and rough
by the infertion of the larger (hare of the- fubclavian
thufcle. After the clavicle begins to be bended
backwards, it is round, but foon after beccmes broad and
thin; which (hape it retains to its ext&rnal end. A-
long the external concavity, a rough finuofity runs, from
which fome part of the deltoid mufcle takes its rife;
  Oppofue to this, on the convex edge, a (cabrpus
176 A N A T
ridge gives infertion to a (hare of the cucullaris mufcle.
The upper furface of the clavicle here is flat; but the
lower is hollow, for lodging the beginning of the muf-
culus fubclavius; arid towards its back-part a tubercle
rifes, to which, and a roughnefs near it, the ftrong ftiort
thick ligament connefting this bone to the coracoid pro-
cefs of the fcapula is fixed.
The external end of this bone is horizontally oblong,
fmooth, Hoping at the pollerior fide, and tipped in a re¬
cent fubjecfi: with a cartilage, for its articulation with the
acromionfcapulse.
The medullary arteries, having their dire&ion oblique¬
ly outwards, enter the clavicles by one or more final!
paflages in the middle of their back-part.
The triangular unequal interior end of each clavicle,
has the cartilage above defcribed interpofed betwixt it
and the irregular cavity of the fternum. The liga¬
ments, which furround this articulation to fejeure it, are
fo Ihort and ftrcng, that little motion can be allowed any
way; and the ft-rong ligament that is ftretched acrofs the
upper furcula of the fternum, from the pofterior promi¬
nent angle of the one clavicle, to the fame place of the
other clavicle, ferves to keep each of thefe bones more
firmly in their place.- By the afliftance, however, of
the moveable intervening cartilage, the clavicle can, at
this joint, be raifed or depreffed, and moved backwards
and forwards fo much, as that the external end, which
is at a great diftance from that axis, enjoys very confpi-
cuous motions.
The ufes of the clavicles are, to keep the fcapulas,
and confequently all the fuperior extremities, from falling
in and forward upon the thorax.
Scapula, or Jhouldcr-blade, is the triangular bone
fituated on the outfide of the ribs, with its longeft fide,
called its bafe, towards the fpinal procefles of the verte¬
bras, and with the angle at the upper part of this fide
about three inches, and the lower angle at a greater di¬
ftance from thefe procefles.—The back-part of the fca¬
pula has nothing but the thin ends of the ferratus anticus
major, and fubfcapularis mufcles, between it and the
ribs: But as this bone advances forwards, its diftance
from the ribs increafes.—The upper, orfhorteft fide, call¬
ed thefuperior cojla of the fcapula, is nearly horizontal, and
parallel with the fecond rib.—The lower fide, which is
named the inferior cojla> is extended obliquely from the
third to the eighth rib. The inferior angle of the
fcapula is very acute; and the upper one is near to a right
angle. The body of this bone is concave towards the
ribs, and convex behind, where it has the name of dor-
fum. Three procefles are generally reckoned to pro¬
ceed from the fcapula^ The firft is the large fpine
that rifes from its convex furface behind, and divides it
unequally. The fecond procefs ftands out from the
fore-part of the upper fide ; and, from its imaginary re¬
semblance to a crow’s beak, is named coracoides — 
The third procefs is the whole thick bulbous fore-part of
the bone.
After thus naming the feveral conftituent parts of the
fcapula, the particular defcription will be more eafily un-
rderftood.
The bafe, which is tipped with cartilage, is not all
O M Y. Parti.
ftreight: For, above the fpine, it runs obliquely for¬
wards to the fuperior angle; that here it might not be'
too protuberant backwards, and fo bruife the mufcles and
teguments: Into the oblique Ipace the mufculus patientise
is inferred. At the root of the fpine, on the back-
part of the bafe, a triangular plain furface is formed, by
the prefl'ure of the lower fibres of the trapezius. 
Below this the edge of the fcapula is fcabrous and rough,
for the infertion of the ferratus major anticus, and rhom¬
boid mufcles.
The back-part of the inferior angle is made fmooth by
the latiffimus dorfi palling over it. This mufcle alfo al¬
ters the dire&iori of the inferior cofta, fome way forwards
from this angle: and fo far it is flatted fc- hind by the o-
rigin of the teres major. As the inferior cofta ad¬
vances forwards, it is of confiderable thicknefs, is flight-
ly hollowed and made ftnooth behind by the teres minor,
while it has a fofla formed into it below by part of the
fubfcapularis; and between the two a ridge, with a fmall
depreffion, appears, where the longus extenfor cubiti has
its origin.
The fuperior cofta is very thin; and near its fore-part
there is a femilunar nitch, from one end of which to
the other a ligament is ftretched; and- fometimes the
bone is continued, to form one, or fometimes two holes
for the paflage of the fcapular blood-veflels and nerves.
 Immediately behind this femilunar cavity, the cora-
co-hyoid mufcle has its rife. From the nitchj to the
termination of the fofla for the teres minor, the fcapula
is narrower than any where elfe, and fupports the third
procefs. This part has the name of cervix.
The whole dorfum of the fcapula is always faid to be
convex; but, by reafon of the raifed edges that furround
it, it is divided into two cavities by the fpine, which is
ftretched from behind forwards, much nearer to the fu¬
perior than to the inferior cofta. The cavity above
the fpine is concave where the fupra-fpinatus mufcle is
lodged ; while the furface of this bone below the fpine,
on which the infra-fpinatus mufcle is placed, is convex,
except a fofla that runs at the fide of the inferior cofta.
The internal or anterior furface of this bone is hollow,
except in the part above the fpine, which is convex. 
The fubfcapularis mufcle is extended over this furface,
where it forms feveral ridges and intermediate depref-
fions, commonly miftaken for prints of the ribs; they
point out the interftices of the bundles of fibres of which
the fubfcapularis mufcle is compofed.
The fpine rifes fmall at the bafe of the fcapula, and
becomes higher and broader as it advances forwards. 
On the lides it is unequally hollowed and crooked, by
the actions of the adjacent mufcles. Its ridge is di- '
vided into two rough flat furfaces: Into the upper one,
the trapezius mufcle is inferred; and the lower one has
part of the deltoid fixed to it. The end of the fpine,
called acromion, or top of the fhoulder, is broad and
flat, and is fometimes only joined to the fpine by a car¬
tilage. The anterior edge of the acromion is flat,'
fmooth, and covered with a cartilage, for its articulation
with the external end of the clavicle; and it is hollowed
below, to allow a paflage to the infra and fupra-fpinati
mufcles, and free motion to the os humeri.
The
Part 1. ANA'
The coracoid procefs is crooked, with its point incli¬
ning forwards ; fo that a hollow is left at the lower fide
of its root, for the pafiage of the infra-fcapularis mufcle.
 The end of this procefs is marked with three plain
furfaces. Into the internal, the ferratus minor anticus
is inferred: From the external, one head of the biceps
flexor cubiti rifes ; and from the lower one, the coraco-
brachialis has its origin. At the upper part of the
root of this procefs, immediately before the femilunar
cavity, a fmooth tubercle appears, where a ligament from
the clavicle is fixed. From all the external fide of rhis
coracoid apophyfe, a broad ligament goes out, which be¬
comes narrower where it is meed to the acromion.
From the cervix fcapulae the third procefs is produced.
The fore-part of this is formed into a glenoid cavity,
which is of the fhape of the longitudinal fedtion of an
egg, being broad below, and narrow above.—Between the
brims of this hollow, and the fore-part of the root of the
fpine, a large finuofity is left, for the tranfmiffion of the
fupra and infra-fpinati mufcles ; and, on the upper part of
thefe brims, we may remark a fmooth furface, where the
fecond head of the biceps flexor cubiti has its origin. 
The root of the fupercilia is rough all round, for the
firmer adhefion of the capfular ligament of the articu¬
lation, and of the cartilage which is placed on thefe
brims, where it is thick, but becomes very thin as it is
continued towards the middle of the xavity, which it
lines all over.
The medullary veflels enter the fcapula near the bafe
of the fpine.
The fc tpula and clavicle are joined by plain furfaces,
tipped with cartilage; by which neither bone is allowed
any confiderable motion, being tightly tied down by the
common capfular ligament, and by a very ftrong one
which proceeds from the coracoid procefs; but divides
into two before it is fixed into the clavicle, with fuch a
diredlion, as either ca.n allow this bone to have a fmall
rotation, in which its pofterior edge turns more back¬
wards, while the anterior one rifes farther forwards ; or
it can yield to the fore-part of the fcapula moving down¬
wards, while the back-part of it is drawn upwards ; in
both which cafes, the oblong fmooth articulated furfaces
of the clavicle and fcapula are not in the fame plane, but
/land a little tranfverfely, or aerofs each other, and
thereby prefervfe this joint from luxations, to which it
would be fubjecu, if either of the bones was to move on
the other perpendicularly up and down, without any ro¬
tation.—The fcapula is connected to the head, os hyoi-
des, vertebras, ribs, and arm-bone, by mufcles, that
have one end fa/lened to thele bones, and the other to
the fcapula, which can move it upwards, downwards,
backwards, or forwards; by the quick fucceflion of thefe
motions, its whole body is carried in a circle.
The ufe of the fcapula is, to ferve as a fulcrum to the
arm ; and, by altering its pofition on different occafions,
to allow always the head of the os humeri a right fitua-
ted focket to move in; and thereby to aflifl: and to en-
large greatly the motions of the fuperior extremity, and
.to afford the mufcles which rife from it more advanta¬
geous affions, by altering their directions to the bone
which they are to move.
. Tol.T. 'No.' 8.
r M Y. 177
The Ar.m has only one bone, beft known by the La¬
tin name of os humeri', which is long, round, and near¬
ly flreight.
The upper end of this bone is formed into a large,
round, fmooth head, whofe middle point is not in a
flreight line with the axis of the bone, but (lands oblique¬
ly backwards from it. The extent of the head is di-
flinguiihed b.y a circular foffa furrounding its bafe, where
the head is united to the bone, and the capfular ligament
of the joint is fixed. Below the fore-part of its bafe
two tubercles fland out: The fmallefl one, which is fi-
tuated mod to the infide, has the tendon of the fubfea-
pularis mufcle inferred into it. The larger more-ex-
ternal protuberance is divided, at its upper part, into
three fmooth plain furfaces ; into anterior of which,
the mufculus fupra-fpinatus ; into the middle or larged,
the infra-fpinatus; into the one behind, the teres mi¬
nor, is inferred. Between thefe two tubercles, ex¬
actly in the fore part of the bone, a deep long fofla
is formed, for lodging the tendinous head of the bi¬
ceps flexor cubiti. On each fide of this foffk, as it
defeends in the os humeri, a rough ridge, gently flat¬
ted in the middle, runs from the roots of the tuber¬
cles. -.The tendon of the peCtoral mufcle is fixed into
the anterior of thefe ridges, and the latiffimus dorfi, and
teres major, are inferred into the internal one. A lit¬
tle behind the lower end of this lad, another rough ridge
may be obferved, where the coraco-brachialis is inferted.
 From the back-part of the root of the larged tu¬
bercle, a ridge alfo is continued, from which the brevis
extenfor cubiti rifes. This bone is flatted on the in¬
fide, about its middle, by the belly of the biceps flexor
cubiti. In the middle of this plain furface, the en¬
try of the medullary artery is feen danting obliquely
downwards. At the fore-fide of this plane, the.bone
rifes in a fort of ridge, which is rough, and often has a
great many fmall holes in it, where the tendon of the
drong deltoid mufcle is inferted; on each fide of which
the bone is fmooth and flat, where the brachiceus inter-
nus rifes. The exterior of thefe two flat furfaces is the
larged; behind it a fuperficial fpiral channel, formed by
the mufcular nerve and the ve/Tels that accompany it,
runs from behind forwards and downwarfisv—The body
of the os humeri is flatted behind by the extenfors of the
fore-arm.-^ Near the lower end of this bone, a large
fharp ridge is extended on its outfide, from which the?
mufculus fpinator radii longus, and the longed head o£
the extenfor carpi radialis rife.—Oppofite to. this, there
is another fmall ridge, to which the aponeurxtic tendon,
that gives origin to the .fibres of the internal and external
brachiuei mufcles, is fixed ; and from a little depreffion on
the fore-fide of it, the pronator radii teres rifes.
The body of the os humeri becomes graduajly broader
towards the lower end, where-it has feveral proccifes ;
at the roots of which there is a cavity before, and ano-.
ther behind. The anterior is divided, by a ridge, into,
two; the external, which is the lead, receives the end
of the radius; and the internal receives the coronoid.
procefs of the ulna in the fledtion of the fore-arm,
while the poderior deep triangular cavity ledges the ole-,
cranon in the extenfions of that member,—The fides of
t Y y the
3
i'7'3
the pofierior cavity are ftretched out into two proceffes,
one on eacii fide : Thefe are called condyles; from each
of which a ftrong ligament goes out to the bones of the
fore arm.—The external condyle, which has an oblique
direddon alfo forwards' in refpedt of the internal, when
the arm is in the mod natural pofture, is equally broad,
and has an obtufe fmooth head riling from it forwards.—:
From the rough part of the condyle, the inferior head
of the bicornis, the extenfor digitorum communis, ex-
tcnfor carpi ulnaris, anconeeus, and fome part of the fu-
pinator radii brevis, take their rife; and on the fmooth
head the upper end of the radius plays.—Immediately
bn the outfide of this, there is a finuofity made by the
Hiorter head of the hjcomis mufcle, upon which the muf-
cular nerve is placed. The internal condyle is more
pointed and protuberant than the external, to give origin
to fome part of the flexor carpi radialis, pronator radii
teres, palmaris longus, flexor digitorum fublimis, and
flexor carpi ulnaris.—Between the two condyles, is the
trochlea or pully, which confids of twm lateral protube¬
rances', and a middle cavity, that are fmooth, and co¬
vered with cartilage.—When the fore-arm is extended,
the tendon of the internal brachioeus mufcle is lodged in
the fore-part of the cavity of this puliy.—Tb^ external
protuberance, which is lefs than the other, has a flrarp
edge behind; but forwards, this ridge is obtufe, and on¬
ly feparated from the little head, already defcribed, by
a fmall fofla, in which the joined edges of the ulna and
radius move.—The internal protuberance of the pully is
largeft and higheft; and therefore, in the motions of the
idnaupon it, that bone would be inclined outwards, was
it not fupported by the radius on that fide. Between
this internal protuberance and condyle, a finuofity may
be remarked, where the ulnar nerve pafles.
The round head at the upper end of this bone is arti¬
culated with the glenoid cavity of the fcapula; which
being fuperficial, and having long ligaments, allows the
arm a free and extenfive motion.
The motions which tbe arm enjoys by this articulation,
are to every fide; and by the fucceflion of thefe differ¬
ent motions, a circle may be defcribed. Befides which,
the bone performs a fmall rotation round its own axis.
The Fore-arm confifts of two long bones, the ulna
and radius; whofe fituation, in refpedt of each other, is
oblique in the leafi: /training or mod natural pcrture; that
is, the ulna is not diredtly behind, nor on the outfide of
the radius, but in a middle fituation between thefe two,
and the radius Crofles it.—In the following defcription,
by the term pojlerior is meant that part which is in the
fame diredlion with the back of the hand; by anterior,
that anfwering to the palm; by interna!, that on the
fame fide with the thumb ; by external, the fide neared
the little finger.
Ulna, fo named from its being ufed as a mcafure, is
the longed of the two bones of the fore-arm, and fitua-
ted on the outfide of the radius.
At the upper end of the ulna are twm proceffes.—The
poderior is the larged, and formed like a hook, whofe
concave furface moves upon the-pully of the os humeri,
and is called olecranon, or top of the cubit.—-The con¬
vex back-part of it is rough and fcabrous, where the Ion-
Part I.
gus, brevis, and brachiceus externus, are inferted. The j
olecranum makes it unneceiTary that the tendons of the
extenfor mufcles fhould pafs over the end of the os hu¬
meri; which would have been of ill confequence in the 1
great fledtions of this joint. Or when any confiderable
external force is applied to this part.—The anterior pro-
cefs is not fo large, nor docs it reach fo high as the one \
behind; but is /harper at its end, and therefore is named
corohcii.—Between thefe two procedes, a large femicir-
cular or figmoid concavity is left; the furface of which,
on each fide of a middle rifing, is flanting, and exadlly
adapted to the pully of the bone of the arm. Acrofs 'l
the middle of it, there is a fmall finuofity for lodging
mucilaginous glands; v/here, as w-ell as in a fmall hollow
on the internal fide of it, the cartilage that lines the reft
of its furface is wanting.— Round the brims of this con¬
cavity the bone is rough, where the capfular ligament
of the joint is implanted. Immediately below' the ole¬
cranon, on the back-part of the ulna, aflat, triangular, j
fpongy furface appears, on which we commonly lean.—
At the internal fide of this, there is a larger hollow fur¬
face, where the mufculus anconosus is lodged; and the
ridge at the infide of this gives rife to the mufculus fu-
pinator radii brevis. Between the top of the ridge
and the coronoid procefs, is the femilunated fmooth ca¬
vity, lined with cartilage, in which, and a ligament ex¬
tended from the one to the other end of this cavity, the f
round head of the radius plays.—Immediately below it,
a rough hollow gives lodging to mucilaginous glands.—
Below the root of the coronoid procefs, this bone is fca¬
brous and unequal, where the brachiceus internus is in¬
ferted.—On the outfide of that, we obferve a fmooth con¬
cavity, w'here the beginning of the flexor digitorum pro- j
fundus fprouts out.
The body of the ulna is triangular. — The internal an-
gle is very fharp where the ligament that conneifts the
two bones is fixed;—the fides, which make this angle,
afe flat and rough, by the adlion and adhefion of the ma¬
ny mufcles which are fituated here.—At the diftanee of
one third of the length of the ulna from the top, in its
fore-part, the paflage of the medullary veflels is to be
remarked flanting upwards.—The external fide of this
bone is fmooth, fomewhat convex, and the angles at ;
each edge of it are blunted by the preffure of the'muf¬
cles equally difpofed about them.
As this bone defeends, it becomes gradually fmaller;
fo that its lower end terminates in a little head, /landing
on a fmall neck. Towards the fore but outer part
of which laft, an oblique ridge runs, that gives rife to the
pronator radii quadratus. ^The head is round, fmooth,
and covered with a cartilage on its internal fide, to be
received into the femilunar cavity of the radius; while a
ftyloid procefs rifes from its outfide, to which is fixed a
ftrong ligament that is extended to the os cuneiforme and
pififorme of the wrift.—Between the back-part of that
internal fmooth fide and this procefs, a finuofity is left
for the tendon of the extenfor carpi ulnaris, On the
fore-part of the root of the procefs, fuch another depref-
fion may be remarked for the paflage of the ulnar arte¬
ry and nerve.—The end of the bone is fmooth, and co¬
vered with a cartilage.—Between it and die bones of
the
ANATOMY.
Part I. A N A T
the wnft, a double concave moveable cartilage is interpo-
fed; which is a continuation of the cartilage that covers
the lower end of the radius, and is conne&ed loofely to
the root of the dyloid procefs, and to the rough cavity
there, in which mucilaginous glands are lodged.
The ulna is articulated above with the lower end of
the os humeri, where thefe bones have depreflions and
protuberances correfponding to each other, io as to al¬
low an eafy and fecure extenfion of the fore-arm to al-
moft a freight line with the arm, and fleftion to a very
acute angle; but, by the flaming pofition of the pully,
the lower part of the fore-arm is turned outwards in the
extenfion, and inwards in the fle&ion; and a very fmall
kind of rotation is likewife allowed in all pofitions, efpe-
cially when the ligaments are mofi: relaxed by the fore¬
arm being in a middle degree of fleftion. The ulna
is alfo articulated with the radius and carpus, in a man¬
ner to be related afterwards.
Radius, fo called from its imagined refemblance toa
fpoke of a wheel, is the bone placed at the infide of the
fore-arm. Its upper end is formed into a circular little
head, which is hollowed for an articulation with the tu¬
bercle at the fide of the pully of the os humeri; and the
lialf of the round circumference of the head next to the
ulna is fmooth, and covered with a cartilage, in order
to be received into the femilunated cavity of that bone.
  Below the head, the radius is much fmaller; there¬
fore this part is named its cervix, which is made round
by the action of the fupinator radii brevis. At the
external root of this neck, a tuberous procefs rifes ; in¬
fo the outer part of which the biceps flexor cubiti is in¬
ferred. From this a ridge runs downwards and in¬
wards, where the fupinator radii brevis is inferred; and
a little below, and behind this ridge, there is a rough
fcabrous furface, where the pronator radii teres is
fixed.
The body of the radius is not ftreight, but convex on
its internal and pofterior furfaces; where it is alfo made
round by the equal preflure of the circumjacent muffles,
particularly of the extenfors of the thumb; but the fur-
faces next to the ulna are flatted and rough, for the ori¬
gin of the mufcles of the hand; and both terminate in a
common fharp fpine, to which the flrong ligament ex¬
tended betwixt the two bones of the fore-arm is fixed.
A little below the beginning of the plain furface, on its
fore-part, where the flexor mufcle of the laft joint of
the thumb takes its origin, the paflage of the medullary
veflels is feen flanting upwards. The radius becomes
broader and flatter towards the lower end, efpecially on
its fore-part, where its pronator quadratus rmdcle is fi-
tuated.
The lower end of the radius is larger than the fupe-
rior ; though not in fuch a difproportion as the upper
end of the ulna is larger than its lower end. Its back-
part has a flat ftrong ridge in the middle, and foils on
each fide. In a fmall groove immediately on the out-
fide of the ridge, the tendon of the extenfor tertii inter-
nodii pollicis plays.—In a large one beyond this, the ten¬
dons of the indicator and of the common extenfor muf¬
cles of the fingers pads.—Contiguous to the ulna, there
is a fmall deprellion made by the extenfor minimi digiti.
O M Y. 179
—On the outfide of the ridge there is a broad deprefiion>
which feems again fubdivided, where the two tendons of
the bicornis, or extenfor carpi radialis, are lodged —The
internal fide of this end of the radius is alfo hollowed by
the extenfors of the firfl and fecond joint of the thumb ;
immediately above which, a little rough furface Ihews
where the fupinator radii longus is inferred.—The ridges
at the lidcs of the grooves, in which the tendons play,
have an annular ligament fixed to them, by which the fe-
veral Iheaths for the tendons are formed.—The fore-part
of this end of the radius is alfo deprefl'ed, where the
flexors of the fingers and flexor carpi radialis pafs. 
The external fide is formed into a femilunated fmooth
cavity, lined with a cartilage, for receiving the lower
end of the ulna.—The loweft part of the radius is form¬
ed into an oblong cavity ; in the middle of which is a
fmall tranfverfe riling, gently hollowed, for lodging mu¬
cilaginous glands ; while the rifing itfelf is infinuated in¬
to the conjundtion .of the two bones of the wrifl that are
received into the cavity.—The internal fide of this arti¬
culation is fenced by a remakable procefs of the radius,
from which a ligament goes out to the wrift, as the fty-
loid procefs of the ulna with its ligament guards it on the
outfide.
The ends of both the bones of the fore-arm being
thicker than the middle, there is a confiderable diflance
between the bodies of thefe bones ; in the larger part of
which a itrong tendinous, but thin ligament, is extend¬
ed, to give a large enough furface for the origin of the
numerous fibres of the mufcles fituated here, that are
fo much funk between the bones, as to be protedfed from
injuries, which they would otherwife be expofed to.
As the head of the radius receives the tubercle of
the os humeri, it is not only bended and extended along
with the ulna, but may be moved round its axis in any po¬
fition ; and that this motion round its axis may be fuffi-
ciently large, the ligament of the articulation is extended
farther down than ordinary on the neck of this bone, be¬
fore it is connedted to it; and it is very thin at its upper
and lower part, but makes a firm ring in the middle.—
This bone is alfp joined to the ulna by a double articu¬
lation ; for above, a tubercle of the radius plays in a
focket of the ulna; whilft below, the radius gives the foc-
ket, and the ulna the tubercle : But then the motion per¬
formed in thefe two is very different; for, at the upper
end, the radius does no more than turn round its axis ;
while, at the lower end, it moves in a fort of cycloid
upon the round part of the ulna; and as the hand is arti¬
culated and firmly connedted here with the radius, they
mull move together.—When the palm is turned upper-
moll, the radius is faid to perform the Jupitiation; when
the back of the hand is above, it is faid to be prone.
The Hand comprehends all from the joint of the
wrifl to the points of the fingers. Its back-part is con¬
vex, for greater firmnefs and ftrength; and it is con¬
cave before, for containing more farely and fonvenient-
ly fuch bodies as we take hold of.
The hand is commonly divided into the carpus, vie-
tacarpus, zvi& fmpers.
The Carpus is compofed of eight fma’l fpongy
bones, fituated at the upper part of the hand, viz. the
i86 A N A T
cs fcapboides, lunarc, cuneiforme, f>ijiforme, trapezium,
trapezoidet, magnum, unciforms.
The fcaphoides is fituated moft internally of thofe that
are articulated with the fore-arm.—The lunare is imme¬
diately on the outfide of the former.—The cuneiforme
is placed ftill more externally, but does not reach fo high
up as the other two.—The pififorme (lands forwards in¬
to the palm from the cuneiforme.—The trapezium is the
firft of the fecond row, and is fituated betwixt the fca¬
phoides and firfl joint of the thumb.—The trapezoides is
immediately on the outfide of the trapezium.—The os
magnum is ftill more external.—'The unciforme is far¬
ther to the -fide of the little finger.
Os fcapheides is the largeft of the eight except one.
It is convex above, concave and oblong below; from
which fmall refemblance of a boat it has got its name.—
Its fmooth convex furface is divided by a rough middle
folia, which runs obliquely crofs it.-—The upper largeft
divifion is articulated with the r-adihs.—Into the fo/Ta
the common ligament of the joint of the wrift is fix¬
ed; and the'lower divifion is joined to the trapezium
and trapezoides.—The concavity receives more than an
half of the round head of the os magnum.—The external
fide of this hollow is formed into a femilunar plane, to
be articulated with the following bone.—The internal,
pofterior, and anterior edges are rough, for fixing the
ligaments that conned it to the furrounding bones.
Os lunare has a fmooth convex upper furface, by
which it is articulated with the radius. The internal
fide, which gives the name to the bone, is in the form of
a crefcent, and is joined with the fcaphoid ;—the lower
furface is hollow, for receiving part of the head of the
os magnum. On the outfide of this cavity is an¬
other fmooth, but narrow oblong finuofity, for receiving
the upper end of the os unciforme:—On the outfide of
which a fmall round convexity is found, for its con-
nedion with the os cuneiforme. Between the great con¬
vexity above, and the firft deep inferior cavity, there is
a rough fofla, in which the circular ligament of the joint
of the wrift is fixed.
Os cuneiforme is broader above, and towards the back
of the hand, than it is below and forwards : which gives
it the refemblance of a wedge. The fuperior (lightly
convex furface is included in the joint of the wwift, be¬
ing oppofed to the lowerend of the ulna.—Below this,
the cuneiform bone has a rough fofla, wherein the liga¬
ment of the articulation of the wrift is fixed.—On the
internal fide of this bone, where it is contiguous to the
os lunare, it is fmooth and (lightly concave.—Its lower
(urface, where it is contiguous to the os unciforme, is ob¬
long, fomewhat fpiral, and concave,—Near the middle
of its anterior furface, a circular plane appears, where the
os pififorme is fuftafned.
Os pififorme is almoft fpherical, except one circular
plane, or (lightly hollow furface, which is covered with
cartilage for its motion on the cuneiforme bone, from
which its whole rough body is prominent forwards into
the palm; having the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris,
and a ligament from the ftyloid procefs of the ulna, fixed
to its upper part; the tranfverfe ligament of the wrift is
eonnefted to its internal fide; ligaments extended to the
O M Y. Part I.
unciform bone, and to the os metacarpi of the little fin¬
ger, are attached to its lower part; the abduflor mini¬
mi digiti has its origin from its fore-part; and, at the
internal fide of it, a fmall depreflion is formed, for the
paflage of the ulnar nerve.
Trapezium has four unequal fides and angles in its
back-part, from which it has got its name. Above,
its furface is fmooth, (lightly hollowed, and femicir-
cular, for its conjunction with the os fcaphoides. Its
external fide is an oblong concave fquare, for recei¬
ving the following bone. The inferior furface is
formed into a pulley ; the two protuberant fides of
which are external and internal. On this pulley the
firft bone of the thumb is moved. At the exter¬
nal fide of the external protuberance, a fmall oblong
fmooth furface is formed by the os metacarpi indicis.
—The fore-part of the trapezium is prominent in the
palm, and, near to the external fide, has a finuofity in
it, where the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis is lod¬
ged ; on the ligamentous (heath of which the tendon of
the flexor tertii internodii pollicis plays : And ftill more
externally the bone is fcabrous, where the tranfverfe li¬
gament of the wrift is connected, the abduCtor and flexor
primi internodii pollicis have their origin, and ligaments
go out to the firft bone of the thumb.
Os trapezoides, fo called from the irregular quadran¬
gular figure of its back-part, is the fmalieft bone of the
wrift, except the pififorme.—The figure of it is an irre¬
gular cube.—It has a fmall hollow furface above, by
which it joins the fcaphoides; a long convex one inter¬
nally, where it is contiguous to the trapezium ; a fruall
external one, for its conjunction with the os magnum ;
and an inferior convex furface, the edges of which are
however fo raifed before and behind, that a fort of pul¬
ley is formed, where it fuftains the os metacarpi indicis.
Os magnum, fo called becaufe it is the largeft bone of
the carpus, is oblong, having four quadrangular (Ides,
with a round upper end, and a triangular plain one be-;
low:—The round head is divided by a fmall rifing, op-
pofite to the connection of the os fcaphoides and lunare,
which together form the cavity for receiving it.—On the
infide, a (hort plain furface joins the os magnum to the
trapezoides.—On the outfide is a long narrow concave
furface, where it is contiguous to the os unciforme.  
The lower end, which fuftains the metacarpal bone
of the middle finger, is triangular, (lightly hollowed,
and farther advanced on the internal fide than on the
external, having a confiderable oblong depreffion made
on the advanced infide by the metacarpal bone of the
fore-finger; and generally there is a finall mark of the
os metacarpi digiti annularis on its external fide. r
Os uncrforme has got its name from a thin broad pro-
cels that (lands out from it forwards into the palm, and
is hollow on its infide, for affording paffage to the ten¬
dons of the flexors of the fingers. To this procefs alfb
the tranfverfe ligament is fixed, that binds down and
defends thefe tendons; and the flexor and abduCtor
mufcles of the little finger have part of their origin from
it.—The upper plain furface is final], convex, and join¬
ed with the os lunare :—The internal fide is long, and
(lightly convex, adapted to the contiguous qs magnum:
Parti. ANATOMY. i3i
The external furface is oblique, and irregularly convex,
to be articulated with the cuneiform bone The lower
end is divided into two concave furfaces ; the external
is joined with the metacarpal bone of the little finger,
and the internal, one is fitted to the metacarpal bone of
the ring-finger.
The ufes of the carpus are, to ferve as a bafe to the
hand, to protect its tendons, and to afford it a free large
' motion.
Metacarpus confifts of four bones, which fuftain the
.fingers.— Each bone is long and round, \vith its ends
larger than its body. The upper end, which fome
call the bafe, is flat and oblong, without any confiderable
head or cavity ; but it is however fomewhat hollowed,
for the articulation with the carpus : It is made fiat and
fmooth on the fides where thefe bones are contiguous to
each other. Their bodies are flatted on their back-
part by the tendons of the extenfors of the fingers. 
The anterior furface of thefe bodies is a little concave,
efpecially in their middle; along which a fharp ridge
Hands out, which feparates the mufculi interoffei placed
on each fide of thefe bones, which are there made flat
and plain by thefe mufcles.
Their lower ends are raifed into large oblong fmooth
heads, whofe greateft extent is forwards from the axis
of the bone.—At the fore-part of each fide of the root
of each of thefe heads, one or two tubercles ftand out,
for fixing the ligaments that go from one metacarpal
bone to another, to preferve them from being drawn a-
funder:—Round the heads a. rough ring may be remark¬
ed, for the capfular ligaments of the firff joints of the
Ungers to be fixed to; and both fides of thefe heads are
flat, by prefling on each other.
. The concavity on the fore-part of thefe metacarpal
bones, and the placing their bafis on the arched carpus,
caufe them to form a hollow in the palm of the hand,
which is often ufeful to us.—The fpaces between them
lodge mufcles, and' their fmall motion makes them fit
fupporttrs for the fingers to play on.
Though the ofla metacarpi fo far agree, yet they may
be diftinguiflted from vach other by the following marks.
The os metacarpi indicis is generally the longelt.—
Its bafe, which is articulated with the os trapezoides,
is hollow in the middle.— The fmall ridge on the in¬
ternal fide of this oblong cavity is fmaller than the one
oppoiite to it, and is made fiat on the fide by the trape¬
zium. The exterior ridge is alfo fmooth, and flat on
its ontfide, for its conjunfHon with the os magnum; im¬
mediately below which, a femicircular fmooih flat furfaee
(hews thti articulation of this to the fecond metacarpal
bone.—The back-part of this bafe is flatted, where the
long head of the extenfor carpi radialis is inferted; and
-its fore-part is prominent, where the tendon of the flexor
| -carpi radidlis is fixed.—The external fide of the body
of this bone is more hollowed by the addon of mufdes,
1 than the internal.—The tubercle at the internal root of
.its head is larger than the external.—Its bafe is fo firm¬
ly fixed to the bone it is connected with, that it has no
i .motion.
I t Os metacarpi medii digiti is generally the fecond in
I length.—Its-bale is a broad fuperficial cavity, flanting
I ....A/ol. I. No. 8. 3
outwards ; the internal poflerior angle of which is fo
prominent, as to have the appearance of a procefs. «•
The internal fide of this bafe is made plain in the fame
way as the external fide of the former bone, while its
external fide has two hollow circular furfaces, for join¬
ing the third metacarpal bone; and between thefe fur*,
faces there is a rough fofla, for the adhefion of a liga¬
ment, and lodging mucilaginous glands. The ftiorter
head of the bicornis is inferted into the back-part of this
bafe. The two fides of this bone are almofl: equally
flatted ; only the ridge on the fore-part of the body in¬
clines outwards. The tubercles at the fore-part of
the root of the head are equal. The motion of this
bone is very little more than the firil metacarpal one has^
and therefore thefe two firmly refill bodies prefled again#
them by the thumb, or fingers, or both.
Os metacarpi digiti annularis is flxorter than the fe¬
cond metacarpal bone.—Its bafe is femicircular and con¬
vex, for its conjun&ion with the os unciforme.—On its
internal fide are two fmooth convexities, and a middle
folia, adapted to the fecond metacarpal bone.—The ex¬
ternal fide has a triangular fmooth concave furface to
join it with the fourth one. The anterior ridge of its
body is fituated more to the out than to the in-fide.—
The tubercles near the head are equal.—The motion of
this third metacarpal bone is greater than the motion of
the fecond.
Os metacarpi minimi digiti is the fmalleft and finarp-
elt.—Its bafe is irregularly convex, and rifes flanting
outwards.—Its internal fide is exactly adapted to the
third metacarpal bone.—The external has no fmooth
furface, becaufe it is not contiguous to any other bone;;
but it is prominent where the extenfor carpi ulnaris is
inferted.—As this metacarpal bone is furniflied with a
proper moving mufcle, has the plainell articulation, is
moft loofely connedted and leal! confined, it not only
enjoys a much larger motion than any of the reft, but
draws the third bone with it, when the palm of the hand
is to be made hollow by its advancement forwards, and
by the prominence of the thumb oppofite to it.
The Thumb and four Fingers are each compofed
of three long bones.
The thumb is fituated obliquely in refpedl of the fin¬
gers, neither oppofite direftly to them, nor in the fame
plane with them.—All its bones are much thicker anti
ftronger in proportion to their length, than the bones of
the finger? are: Which was extremely neceflary, finde
the thumb counteradts all the fingers.
The firft bone of the thumb has its bafe adapted to
the double pulley of the trapezium.—The edge at the
fore-part of this bafe is produced farther than 'any other
part; and round the back-part of the bafe a rough foifa
may be feen,‘for the connedlion of the ligaments of this
joint.—The body and head of this bone are of the fime
ftiape^as the offa metacarpi: only that the body is ftiort¬
er, and the head flatter, with the tubercles at the fore¬
part of its root larger. >
The articulation of the upper end of this bone is un¬
common : For though it has protuberances and depref-
fions adapted to the double pulley of the trapezium; yet
it enjoys a circular motion, a_s the joints do where .a
f Z z * round
182 a N a T
round head of one bone plays in the orbicular focket of
another ; only it is fomewhat more confined and lefs ex¬
peditious, but ftronger and more fecure, than fuch joints
generally are.
The fecond bone of the thumb has a large bafe form¬
ed into an oblong cavity, whofe greateft- length is from
one fide to the other.—Round it feveral tubercles may
be remarked, for the infertion of ligaments.—Its body
is convex, or a half-round behind; but fiat before, for
lodging the tendon of the long, flexor of the thumb,
which is tied down by ligamentous Iheaths that are fixed
on each fide ta the angle at the edge of this flat furface.
The articulation and motion of the upper end of this
fecond bone is as fingular as that of the former.—For its
cavity being joined to the round head of the firfl bone,
it would feem at firft view to enjoy motion in all di-
redtions ; yet, becaufe of the ftrength of its lateral liga¬
ments, oblong figure of the joint itfelf, and mobility of
the firfl: joint, it only allows fledtion and extenfion; and
thefe are generally much confined.
• The third bone of the thumb is the fmalleft, with a
large bafe, whofe greateft extent is from one fide to the
■other. This bale is formed into two cavities and a
middle protuberance, to be adapted to the pulley of the
former bone. Its body is rounded behind; but is
flatter than in the former bone, for fuftaining the nail.—
It is flat and rough before, by the infertion of the flexor
•tertii internodii. This bone becomes gradually fmal-
ler, till near the lower end, where it is a little enlarged,
and has an oval fcabrous edge.
The motion of this third bone is confined to fledtion
and extenfion.
The orderly difpofition of the bones of the fingers in¬
to three rows, has made them generally obtain the name
of three phalanges. All of them have half-round
convex furfaces, covered with an aponeurolis, formed by
the tendons of the extenfors, lumbricales, and interoflei,
and placed diredtly backwards, for their greater flrength ;
and their flat concave part is forwards, for taking hold
more furely, and for lodging the tendons of the flexor
mufcles. The ligaments for keeping down thefe
tendons are fixed to the angles that are between the con¬
vex and concave fidcs.
The bones of the firft phalanx of the fingers anfwer
to the defeription of the fecond bone of the thumb : on¬
ly that the cavity in their bafe is not fo oblong; nor is
their motion on the metacarpal bones fo much confi¬
ned ; for they can be moved laterally or circularly, but
have no rotation, or a very fmall degree of it, round their
axis.
The fecond bone of the fingers has its bafe formed
into two lateral cavities, and a middle protuberance;
while the lower end has two lateral protuberances, and a
middle cavity; therefore it is joined at both ends in the
fame manner, which none of the bones of the thumb are.
The third bone differs nothing from the defeription of
the third bone of the thumb, excepting in the general
diflinguifhing marks; and therefore the fecond and third
phalanx of the fingers enjoy only fledtion and extenfion.
All the difference of the phalanges of the feveral fin¬
gers confifls in their magnitude. The bones of the
O M Y. Part I.
middle-fingef being the longeft and largeft.—Thofe of
the fore-finger come next to that in thicknefs, but not in
length, for thofe of the ring-finger are a little longer.
The little finger has the fmalleft bones. Which difpofi¬
tion is the bell: contrivance for holding the largeft bodies;
becaufe the longeft fingers are applied to the middle lar¬
geft periphery of fuch fubftances as are of a fperical fi¬
gure.
The ufes of all the parts of our fuperior extremities
are fo evident in the common adlions of life, that it is
needlefs to enumerate them here ; and therefore we {hall
proceed to the laft part of the Ikelcton.
OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES.
The Inferior Extremities depend from the a-
cetabula of the offa innominata; are commonly divided
into three parts, viz. the thigh, leg, and foot.
The Thigh has only one bone ; which is the longeft
of the body. The fituation of it is not perpendicular;
for the lower end is inclined confiderably inwards: So
that the knees are almoft contiguous, while there is a
confiderable diftance between the thigh-bones above:
Which is of good ufe to us, fmee fufficient fpace is there¬
by left for the external parts of generation, the two great
cloacae of urine and foeces, and for the large thick muf¬
cles that move the thigh inwards : And, at the fame
time, this fituation of the thigh-bones renders our pro-
greflion quicker, furer, ftreighter, and in lefs room.
The upper end of the thigh-bone is not continued in a
ftreight line with the body of it, but is fet off obliquely
inwards and upwards, whereby the diftance here between
thefe two bones at their upper part is confiderably in-
creafed. This end is formed into a large fmooth
round head, which is the greater portion of a fphere un¬
equally divided. Towards its lower internal part, a
round rough fpofigy pit is obfervable, where the ftrong
ligament, commonly called the round one, is fixed, to
be extended from thence to the lower internal part of
the receiving cavity, where it is confiderably broader
than near to the head of the thigh-bone. The fmafl
part below the head, called the cervix, of the os femoris,
has a great many large holes, into which the fibres of the
ftrong ligament, continued from the capfular, enter, and
are thereby furely united to it; and round the root of
the neck, where it rifes from the bone, a rough ridge is
found, where the capfular ligament of the articulation it¬
felf is connected Below the back-part of this root,
the large unequal protuberance, called trochanter major,
ftands out; the external convex part of which is dillin-
guifhed into three different furfaces, whereof the one on
the fore-part is fcabrous and rough, for the infertion of
the glutasus minimus; the fuperior one is fmooth, and
has the glutaeus medius inferted into it; and the one be¬
hind is made flat and fmooth by the tendon of the glu¬
taeus maximus paffing over it. —The upper edge of
this procefs is fliarp and pointed at its back-part, where
the glutaeus medius is fixed; but forwards it is more ob-
tufe, and has two fuperficial pits formed in it: Into the
fuperior of thefe, the piriformis is implanted; and the
obturator interims and gemini are fixed into the lower
one.
Part I. A N A T
one. From the backmofl: prominent part of this
great trochanter, a rough ridge runs backwards and
downwards, into which the quadratus is inferted. 
In the deep hollow, at the internal upper fide of this
ridge, the obturator externus is implanted. More in¬
ternally, a conoid procefs, called trochanter minor, rifes,
for the infertion of the mufculus pfoas and iliacus inter-
nus, and the pefiincv.s is implanted into a rough hol¬
low below its internal root. The mufcles inferted in¬
to thefe two pfocefies being the principal inltruments of
the rotatory motion of the thigh, have occafioned the
name of trochanters to the proceffes.
The body of the os femoris is convex on the fore-part,
and made hollow behind, by the aftion of the mufcles
that move it and the leg, and for the conveniency of fit¬
ting, without bearing too much on thefe mufcles. 
The fore-part of the thigh-bone is a little flatted above
by the beginning of the crurseus mufcle, as it is alfo be¬
low by the fame mufcle and the reftus. —Its external
furface is likewife made flat below by the vaftus externus,
where it is feparated from the former by an obtufe ridge.
■——The vaftus internus depiefles a little the lower part
of the internal furface. The pofterior concave fur-
face has a ridge rifing in its middle, commonly called //'-
nea afpera, into which the triceps is inferted, and the
fhort head of the biceps flexor tibiae rifes from it. 
At the upper part of k, the medullary veffels enter by a
fmall hole that runs obliquely upwards.—A little above
which, there is a rough foffa or two, where the tendon
of the glutzeus maximus is fixed. The lower end of
the linea afpera divides into two, which defcend towards
each fide. The two vafti mufcles have part of their
origin from thefe ridges ; and the long tendon of the tri¬
ceps is fixed to the internal, by means of part of the
fafcia aponeurotica of the thigh. Near the beginning
of the internal ridge, there is a difcontinuation of the
ridge, where the crural artery pafles through the apo-
neurofis. Between thefe two roujfti lines, the bone
is made flat by the large blood-veflels and nerves which
pafs upon it; and near the end of each of thefe ridges,
a fmall ftnooth protuberance may often be remarked,
where the two heads of the external gaftrocnemius muf¬
cle take their rife and from the fore-part of the inter-
• nal tubercle, a ftrong ligament is extended to the infide
of the tibia.
The lower end of the, os femoris is larger than any o-
ther part of it, and is formed into a great protuberance
on each fide, called its condyles; between which a confi-
derable cavity is found, efpecially at the back-part, in
which the crural veflels and nerves lie immerfed in fat.
 The internal condyle is longer than the external.—
Each of thefe proceiTes feems to be divided in its plain
-fmooth furface. The mark of divifion on the external
is a notch, and on the internal a fmall protuberance.
The fore-part of this divifion, on which the rotula moves,
is formed like a pulley, the external fide of which is
higheft. Behind, there are two oblong large heads,
whofe greateft extent is backwards, for the motion-of the
tibia; and from the rough cavity between them, but near
to the bale of the internal condyle, the ftrong ligament,
commonly called the crofs one, has its rife.! A little
O M Y. 183
above which, a rough protuberance gives infertion to the
tendon of the triceps. The condyles, both on the
outer and inner fide of the knee, are made flat by the muf¬
cles palling along them. On the back part of the in¬
ternal, a flight deprelfion is made by the tendons of the
gracilis and fartorius ; and on the external, fuch another
is formed by the biceps flexor cruris ; behind which, a
deep folia is to be obferved, where the poplitaeus mufcle
has its origin. From the tubercle immediately before
this cavity, a ftrong round ligament goes out to the up¬
per part of the fibula. Round this lower end of the
thigh-bone, large holes are found, into which the liga¬
ments for the fecurity of the joint are fixed, and blood-
veflels pafs to the internal fubftance of the bone.
The thigh-bone being articulated above w'ith the aceta¬
bulum of the olfa innominata, which affords its round
head a fecure and extenlive play, can be moved to every
fide; but is reftrained in its motion outwards by the high
brims of the cavity, and by the round ligament; for o-
therwife the head of the bone would have been frequent¬
ly thruft out at the breach of the brims on the infide,
which allows the thigh to move confiderably inwards.
 The body of this bone enjoys little or no rotatory
motion, though the head moll commonly moves round
its own axis; becaufe the oblique progrefs of the neck
and head from the bone is fuch, that the rotatory motion,
of the head can only bring the body of the bone for¬
wards and backwards. The os femoris is articulated
below to the tibia and rotula in the manner afterwards to
be defcribed.
The nearnefs of the fmall neck to the round head of
the thigh-bone, and its upper end being covered with very
thick mufcles, make greater difficulty in diftinguiffiing
between a luxation and fradture here, than in any other
part of the body.
The Leg is compofed of three bones, tibia, fibula1,
and rotula.
Tibia., fo called from its refemblance to an old mufi-
cal pipe or flute, is the long, thick, triangular bone, G-
tuated at the internal part of the leg, and continued in
almoft a ftreight line from the thigh-bone.
The upper end of the tibia is large, bulbous, and,
fpongy, and is divided into two cavities by a rough irre¬
gular protuberance, which is hollow at its moft. prominent
part, as well as before and behind. The anterior of the-
two ligaments that compofe the great crofs one, is in¬
ferted into the middle cavity, and the depreflion behind
receives the pofterior ligament.—The two broad cavities
at the fides of this protuberance are not equal; for the
internal is oblong and deep, to receive the internal con¬
dyle of the thigh-bone; while the external is more fu-
perficial and rounder, for the external condyle. In
each of thefe two cavities of a recent fubjedl, a femilu-
nar cartilage is placed, which is thick at its convex edge,
and becomes gradually thinner towards the concave or
interior edge. -The middle of each of thefe cartilages
is broad, and the ends of them turn narrower and thin¬
ner, as they approach the middle protuberance of the ti¬
bia. The thick convex edge of each cartilage is con-
nedfed to the capfular and other ligaments of the articu¬
lation, hut fo near to their rife from the_ tibia, that the
cartilages;
if 4 ANA
cartilages are not allowed to change place far; while the
harrow ends of the cartilages, becoming almoft ligaments,
are fixed at the infertion of the ftrong crofs ligament in-
tq the tibia, and feem to have their fubftance united with
it; therefore a circular hole is left between each cartilage
and the ligament, in which the mod prominent convex
part of each condyle of the thigh-bone moves. The
circumference of thefe cavities is rough and unequal, for
the firm connexion of the ligaments of the joint. Im¬
mediately below the edge, at its back-part, two rough
flatted protuberances Hand out: Into the internal, the
tendon of the femimembrasofus mufcle is inferted ; and
a part of the crofs ligament is fixed to the external. 
On the outfide of this lad tubercle, a fmooth ilightly-
hollowed furface is formed by the action of the poplitteus
mufcle.
Below the fore-part of the upper end of the tibia, a
confiderable rough protuberance rifes, to which the drong
tendinous ligament of the rotula is fixed. On the in¬
ternal fiefe of this, there is a broad, fcabrous, flightly-
hollowed furface, to which the internal long ligament of
the joint, the aponeurofis of the vadus internus, and the
tendons of the feminervofus, gracilis, and fartorius, are
Axed.—Below the external edge of the upper end of the
tibia, there^s a circular flat furface, covered, in a recent
fubjedt, with cartilage, for the articulation of the fibula;
■—between which and the anterior knob, there is a rough
hollow, from which the tibialis anticus, and extenfor di-
gitorum longus, take their origin.—From the fmooth flat
furface, a ridge runs obliquely dov/nwards and inwards,
to give rife to part of the folseus, tibialis podicus, and
flexor digitorum longus, and infertion to the aponeurefis
of the femimembranofus which covers the poplitaeus, and
to fome of the external fibres of this lad named mufcle.
*—At the infide of this ridge an oblique plain furface is
left, where the greated part of the mufculus poplitaeus
is inferted.—-The remaining body of the tibia is triangu-
gular.—The anterior angle is very fnarp, and is com¬
monly called the fpine or Jhin. This ridge is not
ftreight; but turns fird inwards, then ontwa-ds, and
Jadly inwards again.—The plain internal fide is fmooth
and equal, being little fubjedted to the adlioris of muf-
cles ; but the external fide is hollowed above by the tibi¬
alis anticus, and below by the extenfor digitorum longus,
and extenfor pollicis longus.—The two angles behind
thefe fides are rounded by the adtion of the mufcles ;—
the poderior fide comprehended between them is not fo
broad as thofe already mentioned, but is more oblique
and flatted by the adlion of the tibialisqrodicus and flexor
digitorum longus.—Some way above the middle of the
bone, the internal angle terminates, and the bone is
made round by the preflure the mufculus fokeus.—
Near to this, the paflage of the medullary veflels is feetv
flanting obliquely downwards.
The lower end of the tibia is made hollow, but fo as
a fmall protuberance rifes in the middle.—The internal
fide of this cavity, which is fmooth, and, in a recent
fubjedt, is covered with cartilage, is produced into a con¬
fiderable procefs, commonly named malleolus intermit;
the point of which is divided by a notch, and from it li¬
gaments are fent out to the foot. The external fide
T O M Y. Part I.
of this end of the tibia has a rough irregular femilunar
cavity formed in it, for receiving the lower end of the fi¬
bula. The poflerior fide has two lateral grooves, and
a fmall middle protuberance. In the internal depreflion,
the tendons of the mufculus tibialis pofticus, and flexor
digitorum longus, are lodged; and in the external, the
tendon of the flexor longus pollicis plays. From the
middle protuberance, ligamentous' IFeaths go out, for
tying down thefe tendons.
Fibula is the fmali long bone, placed on the outfide
of the leg, oppofite to the external angle of the tibia';
the fliape of it is irregularly triangular.
The head of the fibula has a fuperfieial circular cavity
formed on its infide, which, in a recent fubjedlyis cover¬
ed with a cartilage, but fo clolely connedted to the tibia
-by ligaments, as to allow only a fmall motion backwards
and forwards.—This head is protuberant and rough on its
outfide, where a ftrong round ligament, and the mufculiis
Weeps, are inferted ; and, below the back-part of its in¬
ternal fide, a tubercle may be remarked, that gives rife
to the ftrong tendinous part of the folseus mufcle.
The body of this bone is a little crooked inwards and
backwards, which figure is owing to the aftions of the
mufcles; but is ftill further increafed by nurfes, who oft¬
en hold children carelefsly by the legs. The fharpeft
angle of the fibula is forwards, on each fide of which
the bone is confiderably, but unequally, deprefled by tire
bellies of the feveral mufcles that rife from, or adt upon
it; and, in old people, thefe mufcles make diftindt finuo-
fities for themfelves. The external furface of the fi¬
bula is deprefled obliquely from above downwards and
backwards, by the two "peronsei. Its internal furfaee
is unequally divided into two narrow longitudinal planes,
by an oblique ridge extended from the upper part of the
anterior angle, to join with the lower end of the inter¬
nal angle. To this ridge the ligament ftretched between
the two bones of the leg is connedled. The anterior
of the two planes is very narrow above, where the ex¬
tenfor longus digitoruin, and extenfor longus pollicis, a
rife from it; but is broader below, where it has the print
of the nonus Vefalii.—The pofterior plane is broad and
hollow, giving origin to the larger ftiare of the tibialis
pofticus.—The internal angle of this bone has a tendi¬
nous membrane fixed to it, from which fibres of the flexor
digitorum longus take their rife.—The pofterior furfaoe
of the fibula is the plaineft and frnootheft, but is made
flat above by the folaeus, and is hollowed below by the
flexor pollicis longus.—In the middle of this furface the
canal for the medullary veffels may be feen flanting down¬
wards.
The lower end of the fibula is extended into a fpongy
oblong head, on the infide of which is a convex, irre¬
gular, and frequently a fcabrous furface, that is recei¬
ved by the external hollow of the tibia, and fo firmly,
joined to it by a very thin intermediate cartilage and ftrong
ligaments, that it fcarce can move.-r—Below this, the fi¬
bula is ftretched out into a coronoid procefs, that is
fmooth, covered with cartilage on its internal fide, and
is there contiguous to the outfide of the firft bene cf the
foot, the aftragalus, to fecure the articulation. This
procefs, named malleolus ext emus, being fituated farther
Part r. A N A T
back than the internal malleolus, and in an oblique' dir
region, obliges us naturally to turn the fore-part of ;the
foot outwards. At the lower internal part of this pro-
cefs, a fpongy cavity for mucilaginous glands may be re¬
marked ; from its point, ligaments are extended to the a-
ftragalus, os. calcis, and qs naviculare, bones of the foot;
and from its infide, Ihort ftrong ones go out to the alira-
galus. On the back-part .of it, a finuofity is made by the
tendons of the peronaei mufcles.—When the ligament
extended over thefe tendons from the one fide of the
depreffion to the other is broke, ftretched too much, or
made weak by afprain, the tendons frequently ftart for¬
wards to the ontfide of the fibula.
The conjundlion of the upper end of the fibula with
the tibia is, by plain furfaces, tipped with cartilage; and,
at its lower end, the cartilage feems to glue the two bones
together, not, however, fo firmly in young people, but
that the motion at the other end of fuch a long radius is
very obfervable.
The principal ufe of this bone is to afford origin and
infertion to mufcles; the direflion of which may be a
little altered, on proper occafions, by its upper part
fluiffling backwards and forwards. -——It iikewife helps
to make the articulation of the foot more fecure and
firm.
Rotul a is the fmall flat bone fituated at the fore-part
of the joint of the knee. Its fliape refembles the
common figure of the heart with its point downwards.—
The anterior convex,furface of the rotula is pierced by a
great number of hole's,. into which fibres of the ftrong li¬
gament that is fpread over it enter.-—ehind, its fur-
face is fmooth, covered with cartilage, and divided by a
middle convex ridge into two cavities, of which the ex¬
ternal is largeft, and both are exaflly adapted to the pul¬
ley of the os femoris, on which they are placed in the
moft ordinary unftraining poftures of the leg; but when
the leg is much bended, the rotula defcends far down
on the condyles; and when .the leg is fully extended,
the rotula rifes higher, in its upper part, than .the pulley-
of the thigh-bone. Th4:plain fmooth’furface is fur-
rounded by a rough prominent edge, to which the capfu-
lar ligament adheres:—Below, the point of the bone is
icabrous, where the rtrong tendinous ligament from the
tubercle of the tibia is fixed.—The upper horizontal part
of this bone is flatted and unequal, where die tendons of
the extenfors of the leg are inferted.
The fubftance of the.mtula is cellulari with very thin
external firm plates : But then thefe cells are fo fmall,
and fuch a quantity of bone is employed in their forma¬
tion, that fcarce any bone of its bulk is fo flrong. Be-
frdes, it is covered all over with a thick ligament, to con¬
ned its fubfiance, and is moveable to- one fide or other ;
therefore is fufliciently flrong to refill die ordinary adions.
of the large m nicies that are inferted into it, or any com¬
mon external force applied to it.
. The parts which conllitute the joint of the. knee being
now delcribed, let us examine what are its motions, and
how performed.—=—The two. principal motions are flec¬
tion and extenfion. In the former of thefe, the leg
may be brought to a very: acute angle with the. thigh, by
the condyles of tJtsdhighrbones: being rojuml aod. ojade
:-¥oe. I. Nq. .8. ' 3
O M Y. 185
fmboth far backwards. In performing this, the' rotula
is pulled down by the tibia. When the leg is to be
extended, tile rotula is drawn upwards, confcquemly
the tibia forwards, by the ex'tenfor mul'cles; which, by
means of the protuberant joint, and of this thick bone
with its ligament, have in effed the chord, with which
they ad, fixed to the tibia at a conliderable angle, there¬
fore ad with advantage; but are reftrained from pulling
the leg farther than to a ftreight line with the thigh, by
the pollerior part of the crois ligament, that the body
might be fupported by a firm perpendicular column : For
at this time the thigh and leg are as -little moveable in a
rotatory way, or to either fide, as if they were one con¬
tinued bone. But when, the joint is a little bended,
the rotula is not tightly braced, and the pofterior liga¬
ment is relaxed; therefore this bone ma.y be moved a lit¬
tle to either fide, or with a fmall rotation in the fuperfi-
cial cavities of the tibia; which is done by.the motion
of the external cavity backwards and forwards, the in¬
ternal fervingas a fort of axis. Seeing then one part of
the crofs ligament is fituated perpendicularly, and the
po/terior part is ftretched obliquely from the internal
condyle of the thigh outwards, that pofterior part of
the crcls -ligament prevents the leg’s being turned at all
inwards; but it could not hinder it from turning out-;
wards almoft round, was not that motion confined by the
lateral ligaments of this joint, which can yield little.
The Foot is divided into three parts, viz. tarfus^
metatarfus, and tees : In the defeription of which, the
broad of the foot fnall be called fuperior; the foie, in¬
ferior ; the fide on which the great toe is, internal\ that;-
where the Ijttle toe is, external.
The tarfus confifts of feven fpongy bones ; to wit, the
ct/lragalus, os calcis, naviculare, cuboiJes, cuneijonne
externum, cuneiforme medium, and cuneiforme in¬
ternum.
The aftragalus is the uppermoft of thefe bones. 
The os calcis is below the aftragalus, and is confiderahly
prominent backwards .beyond the other bones, to form
the heel. The os naviculare is in .the middle of the,
internal fide of the tarfus. The os cuboides is the
moft external of the row of four bones at its fore-part.
 The os cuneiforme externum is placed at the infide.
of the cuboid. The cuneiforme medium is between
the external and internal cuneiform bones, and the inter¬
nal cuneiform is put at the internal fide of the foot.
In the defeription,of thefe bone§,. let it be obferved*
That where-ever a ridge is mentioned, without a parti¬
cular ufe afligned, a ligament is underftood to be fixed to
it: or where a fpongy rough cavity, deprefiion, or foffa,
is remarked, without naming its nfe, a ligament is in¬
ferred, and mucilaginous glands are.lodged.
The upper part of the aftragalus is formed into a large,
linooth • head, which is flightly hollowed in the middle;
and therefore refembles a fuperficial pulley, by which it
is fitted to the lower end of the tibia.—j—The internal
fide of this head is flat and fmooth, to play on the inter¬
nal malleolus. The external fide has alfo fuch a fur-
fgee, but larger, for its articulation with the external
malleolus. Round the .bafe of this head there is a
ro.ugh folia; and, immediately.before the head, as alfo
\ 3 A below
Ids A N A T
below its internal fmooth furface, we find a confiderable
rough cavity.
The lower furface of the aflragalus is divided by an
irregular, deep, rough folfa; which, at its internal end,
is narrow, but'gradually widens, as it ftretches obliquely
outwards and forwards.—The fmooth furface, covered
•with cartilage, behind this folfa, is large, oblong, ex¬
tended in the fame oblique fituation with the folfa, and
concave, for its conjunction with the os calcis. The
back-part of the edge of this cavity is produced into two
lharp-pointed rough proceffes, between which is a depref-
fion, made by the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus.
-—The lower furface before the foffa is convex, and com-
pofed of three diftindt fmooth planes. The long one
behind, and the exterior orfhorteft, are articulated with
the heel-bone; while the internal, which is the moft con¬
vex of the three, refts and moves upon a cartilaginous
ligament, that is continued from the calcaneum to the os
fcaphoides.
The fore-part of this bone is formed into a convex
oblong fmooth head, which is received by the os navi-
culare.— Round the root of this head, efpecially on the
upper furface, a rough fofla maybe remarked^
The aftragalus is articulated above to the tibia and fi¬
bula, which together form one cavity. Though, in this
articulation, the bones have prominences and cavities fo
fhiall, as might allow motions in all directions; yet the
fleCtion and extenfion are the molt confiderable, the o-
ther motions being confined by the malleoli, and by the
ftrong ligaments which go out from the points of thefe
proceffes to the aftragalus and os calcis. The aftragalus
is joined below to the os calcis; and before, to the os
naviculare, in the manner to be explained when thefe
bones are defcribed.
Cakaneum is the largeft bone of the feven.—Behind,
it is formed into a large knob, commonly called the Aeei :
The furface of which is rough behind, where the tendo
Achillis is inferted into it; and above, it is hollow and
fpongy. Farther forwards, on the upper furface of the
calcaneum, there is an irregular, oblong, fmooth con¬
vexity, adapted to the concavity at the back-part of the
aftragalus: And beyond this a narrow foffa is leen, which
divides it from two fniall concave fmooth furfaces, that
are joined to the fore-part of the aftragalus.—Behind
the poftsrior of thefe fmooth furfaces, which is the lar¬
geft, a fmall finuofity is made by the tendon of the flexor
digitorum longus ; at the fore-part of which a fmall
rough protuberance appears, that gives rife to the muf-
culus extenfor digitorum brevis.
The external fide of this bone is flat, with a fuperfi-
cial foffa running horizontally, in which the tendon of
the mufculus peronaeus longus is lodged.—The internal
fide of the heel-bone is hollowed, for lodging the origin
of the mafia cornea Jac. Sylvii, and for the fafe paffage
of tendons, nerves, and arteries.—Under the fide of the
internal fmooth concavity, a particular groove is made
by the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus; and from
the thin protuberance on this internal fide, the cartilagi¬
nous ligament that fupports the aflragalus, goes out to
the os paviculare; on which ligament, and on the edge
of this bone to which it is fixed, the groove is form-
O M Y. Parti.
ed for the tendon of the flexor digitorum profundus.
The lower furface'of this bone is prefi’ed flat at the
back-part, by the weight of our bodies; and immedi¬
ately before this plane, there are two tubercles, from
the internal of which the mufculus abdudtor pollicis,
flexor digitorum fublimis, as alfo part of the appneurolis
plantaris, and of the abdudtor minimi digiti, have their
origin; and the other part of the abdudtor minimi digiii
and aponeurofis plantaris, rifes from the external. 
Before thefe protuberances this bone is concave, for
lodging the flexor mufcles; and at its fore-part we may
obferve a rough depreflion, from which, and a tubercle
behind it, the ligament goes out that prevents this bono
to be feparated from the os cuboides.
The fore-part of the os calcis is formed into an ob¬
long, pulley-like, fmooth furface, which is circular at
its upper external end, but is pointed below. This
fmooth furface is fitted to the os cubeides.
Though the furfaces by which the aftragalus and os
calcis are articulated, feem fit enough for motion; yet
the very ftrong ligaments by which thefe bones are con-
netfted, prevent it, and render this principal part of our
bafe, which refts on the ground, to wit, the os calcis,
firm.
Os naviculare, is fomewhat circular.—It is formed in¬
to an oblong concavity behind, for receiving the anterior
head of the aftragalus.—On the upper furface, there is
a rough foffa.—Below, the os naviculare is very unequal
and rough ; but hollow for the fafety of the mufcles.—
On its infide, a large knob rifes out, from which the
abdudtor pollicis takes in part its origin, the tendon of
the tibialis pofticus is inferted into it, and to it two re¬
markable ligaments are fixed; the firft is the ftrong one,
formerly mentioned, which fupports the aftragalus; the
fecond is ftretched from this bone obliquely crofs the:
foot, to the metatarfal bones of the middle toe, and
of the toe next to the little one.'—On the otulide of the
os naviculare, there is a femicircular fmooth furface,'
where it is joined to the os cuboides.—The fore-part of
this bone is all covered with cartilage, and is divided’
into three fmooth planes, fitted to the three offa cunei-
formia.
The os naviculare and aftragalus are joined as a ball,
and focket, and the naviculare moves in all diredtions in
turning the toes inwards, or in raifing or deprefling cither
fide of the foot, though the motions are greatly reftrain-'
ed by the ligaments which conned): this to th£ other bones
of the tarfus.
Os cuboides is a very irregular cube.—■—Behind, it
is formed into an oblong unequal concavity, adapted
to the fore-part of the os calcis.—On its internal fide,
there is a fmall femicircular fmooth cavity, to join the os
naviculare.—Immediately beforewhich, an oblongfmcoth
plane is .made by the os cuneiforme externum. Be¬
low this, the bone is hollow and rough.—On the internal
fide of the lower furface, a round protuberance and foffa
are found, where the mufculus addudfor pollicis has its
origin. On the external fide of this fame furface, there
is a round knob, covered with cartilage; immediately
before which, a fmooth foffa may be cbferved, in winch
the tendon of the peror.seus primus runs obliquely crofs
Part I. A N A T
the foot; and on the knoh, the thin flat cartilage proper
to this mufcle plays; in place of which, fometimes a
hone is found:—More externally than the knob, a rough
hollow is made, for the ftrong ligaments It retched be¬
twixt this bone and the os caicis.—Before, the furface
of the os cuboides is flat, fmooth, and flightly divided
into two planes, for fullaining the os metatarfi of the
little toe, and of the toe next to it.
The form of the back-part of the os cuboides, and
the ligaments connecting the joint there with the os cai¬
cis, both concur in allowing little motion in this part.
Os cuneiforme externum, is much of the fliape of a
wedge, being broad and flat above, with long fides run¬
ning obliquely downwards, and terminating in a iharp
edge.—The upper furface of this hone is an oblong
fquare.—The one behind is nearly a triangle, but not
complete at the inferior angle, and is joined to the os na-
vicuiare.—The external fide is an oblong fquare, divided
as it were by a diagonal: The upper half of it is fmooth,
for its conjumhion with the os cuboides: The other is a
fcabrous hollow ; and in its fuperior anterior angle, a
{mail fmooth impreflion is made by the os metatarfx of
the toe next to the little one.—The internal fide of this
bone is alfo quadrangular, with the fore-part of its edge
made flat and fmooth by the os metatarfi of the toe next
to the great one; and the back-part is alfo flat and fmooth,
where the os cuneiforme medium is contiguous to it.—
The fore-part of this bone is an oblong triangle, for fu-
llaining the os metatarfi of the middle toe.
Os cuneiforme medium, or minimum, is dill more ex-
3<5tly the ftiape of a wedge than the former. Its up¬
per part is fquare ;—its internal fide has a flat fmooth
ftirface above and behind, for its conjun&ion with the
following bone; with a fmall rough fofla below ; and a
confiderable fhare of it is rough and hollow.—The ex¬
ternal fide is fmooth and a little hollowed, where it is
contiguous to the laft defcribed bone.—Behind, this bone
is triangular, where it is articulated with the os naviculare ;
and it is alfo triangular at its fo're-part, where it is conti¬
guous to the os metatarfi of.the toe next to the great one.
Os cuneiforme maximum, or internum, differs from:
the two former in its fituation, which is more oblique
than theirs.—Befides, its broad thick part is placed be¬
low, and the fmail thin point is above and outwards;
while its under broad furface is concave, for allowing a
fafe paflage to the flexors of the great toe.—The fur¬
face of this os cuneiforme behind, where it is joined to
the os naviculare, is hollow, fmooth, and of a circular
figure below, but pointed above.—The external fide
confifts of two fmooth and flat fur faces, whofe diredlion
is neatly at right angles with each other. With the po-
fteriar, that runs obliquely from below forwards and up¬
wards, the os cuneiforme minimum is joined; and with
the anterior, whofe direftfen is longitudinal, the os me-
tatarli of thfe toe next to the great one is conceded.—
The forerpart of this hone is femilunar, but flat and
fmooth, for fuftaining the os metatarfi of the great toe.
—The internal fide is fcabrous, with tw6 remarkable
tubercle^ below, from which the mufculus abdudor pal-
lids rifes, and'the tibialis anticus is inferted into its up¬
per part.
O M Y. 187
The three cuneiform bones are-all fo fecured by liga¬
ments, that very little motion is allowed in any of them.
Thefe feven bones of the tarfus, when joined, are
convex above, and leave a concavity below, for lodging
fafely the feveral mufcles, tendons, veflels, and nerves
that lie in the foie of the foot.—In the recent fubjed,
their upper and lower furfaces are covered with ffrong
ligaments, which adhere firmly to them ; and all the bones
are fo tightly conneded, by thefe and <he other liga¬
ments, which are fixed to the rough ridges and foflae
formerly mentioned, that, notwithftanding the many
furfaces covered with cartilage, fome of which are of
the form of the very moveable articulations, no more
motion is here allowed, than only to prevent too great a
fliock of the fabric of the body in walking, leaping, &c '.
by falling on too folid a bafe.
Metatarsus is compofed of five bones, which, in
their general charaders, agree with the metacarpal
bones ; but may be diftinguilhed from them by the
following marks : 1. They are longer, thicker, and
ftronger. 2. Their anterior round ends are not fo
broad, and are lefs in proportion to their bafes. 3. Their
bodies are lharper above and flatter on the fides, with
their inferior ridge inclined more to the outfide. 4. The
tubercles at the lower parts of the round head are larger:
The firft or internal metatarfal bone is eafily diffin-*
guilhed from the reft by its thicknefs.—The one next to
it is the longeft, and with its (harp edge almoft perpen¬
dicular.——The others are ftiorter and more oblique, as
their fituation is more external.
Os metatarfi pollicis is by far the thickeft and ftrong-
eft, as having much the greateft weight to fuftain. Its
bafe is oblong, irregularly concave, and of a femilunar
figure, to be adapted to the os cuneiforme maximum.—
The inferior edge of this bafe is a little prominent and
rough, where vhe tendon of the peronseus primus muf¬
cle is inferted. On its outfide, an oblique circular de-
preflion is made by the fecond metatarfal bone. Its-
round head has generally on its fore-part a middle ridge,
and two oblong cavities, for the ofla fefamoidea; and
on the external fide, a depreflion is made by the following
bone.
Os .metatarfi of the fecond toe, is the longeft of the
five, with a triangular bafe fupported by the os cunei¬
forme medium and the external fide produced into a pro-
cefs; the end of which is an oblique fmooth plane, join¬
ed to the os cuneiforme externum. Near the internal'
edge, of the bafe, this bone has two fmall depreflions,
made by the os cur.eiforme maximum, between which is
a rough cavity.—Farther forwards, we may obferve a
fmooth protuberance, which is joined to the foregoing^
bone. On the outfide of the bafe are two oblong
fmooth furfaces, for its articulation with the following
bone ; the fuperiur fmooth furface being extended longi¬
tudinally, and the inferior perpendicularly ; between
which there is a rough folfa.
Os metatarfi of the middle toe, is the fecondin length.
—Its bafe, fupported by the os cuneiforme externum,
is triangular, but flanting outwards, where it ends in a
lharp-pointed little procefs; and the angle below is net
completed.
The
rm A N A T
Tlie internal fide of this bafe is adapted to the pre¬
ceding bone ; and the external fide has alfo two fraooth
furfaces covered with cartilage, but of a different figure;
for the upper one is concave, and, being round behind,
turns fmaSlef as it advances forewards; and the lower
furface is little, fmootli, convex, and very hear the edge
of the bafe.
Os metatarfi of the fourth toe, is near as long as the
former, with a triangular flanting'bafe, joined to the os cu-
bcides, and made round at its external angle, having one
hollow fmooth furface on the out'fide, where it is preffed
upon by the following bone, and two on the internal
fide, correfponding to the former bone ; behind which
is a long narrow furface imprefled by the os cuneiforme
externum.
Q.s metatarfi of the little toe, is the fhorteft, fituated
with its two flat fides above and below, and with the
ridges laterally.— The bale of it, part of which reds
on the os cuboidesV is very large, tuberous, and produ¬
ced into a long-pointed procefs externally, where part
of the abdudor minimi digiti is fixed; and into its up¬
per part the peronaeus fecundus is inferted. Its infide
has a flat conoidal furface, where it is contiguous to the
preceding' bone.
When we ftand, the fore-ends of thefe metatarfal
nones, and the os calcis, are our only fupporters; and
therefore it is neceffary they fliould be ftrong, and fliould
have a confined motion.
The bones of the Toes are much akin to thofe of the
thumb and fingers; particularly the two of the great
toe are precifely formed as the two laft of the thumb;
only their pofition, in refpeft of the other toes, is not
obliejue; and they are proportionally much ftronger, be-
caufe they are fubjeifted to a greater force; for they fu-
ffain the force with which our bodies are pufhed forwards
by the foot behind at every ftep we make; and on them
principally the weight of the body is fupported, when we
are raifed on our tiptoes.
The three bones in each of the"other four toes, com¬
pared to thofe of the fingers, differ from them in thefe
particulars; They are lefs, and fmaller in proportion
to their lengths: — Their bafes are much larger than
their anterior ends: Their bodies are more narrow above
and below, and flatter on the fides.—The firft phalanx
EXPLANATION
Figure I. A Male Skeleton.
A, Os frontis. B, Os parietale. C, Os temporum.
D, Os occipitis. E, Offa nafi. F, Os malas. G, Os
maxillare fuperius. H, Os maxillare inferius. I, The
teeth, which are fixteen in each jaw. K, The feven
vertebra of the neck, with their intermediate carti¬
lages. L, &c. The twelve dorfal vertebra, with
their intermediate cartilages. M, The five lumbar
vertebra, and, N,Their intermediate cartilages.. O, Os
O M Y. Part I.
is proportionally much longer than the bones of the fe-
cond and third, which are very fliort.
Of the four, the toe next to the great one has the
largeft bones in all dimenfions, and more externally the
toes are lefs.—The little toe, and frequently that next
to it, have the fecond and third bones intimately uni¬
ted into one; which may be owing to their little motion,
,and the great preffure they are fubjedted to.
The toes are of good ufe to us in walking; for, when
the foie is raifed, they bring our body, with its centre
of gravity, perpendicular to the advanced foot.
The only bones now remaining to complete the de-
feription of the Ikeleton, are the fmall ones, which are
found at the joints of the fingers and toes, and in fome
other parts, called
Ossa Sesamoidea, which are of very different fi¬
gures and fizes, though they are generally faid to refem-
ble the feed of the feiamum.—-—They feem to be no¬
thing elfe than the ligaments of the articulations, or tire
firm tendons of firong mufcles, or both, become bony,
by the compreflion which they fuffer. Thus the fefa-
moid bones at the beginning of the gaftrpcnemii mufcles,
are evidently compofed of the tendinous fibres only.^—
The^e, at the firit joint of the great toe, are as plainly
the fame continued fuhftance with the ligaments and the
tendons of the adductor, flexor, brevis, and abdu&or.—
That which is fometimes double at the fecond joint of
that toe, is part of the capfular ligament; and if we e-
numerate the other fefamoid bones that are at any time
found, we may obferve all of them formed in this man¬
ner. -Their number, figure, fituation, and magnitude,
are fo uncertain, that it were in vain to infill on the dif¬
ferences of each ; and therefore we lhall only in general
remark,
1. That where-ever the tendons and ligaments are
firmed, the adions of the mufcles flxongeft, and the
compreflion greateft, there fuch bones are moll common¬
ly found.
2. That, cisteris paribus, the older the fubjed is in
which they are fought, their number is greater, and their
lire is larger.
3. The more labour any perfon is inured to, he has,
carter is paribus, the mod numerous and larged offa fefa-
moidea.
of PLATE XIII.
facrum. P, Os coccygis. Q5 Os ilium. R, Os pu¬
bis. S, Osifchium. T, The leven true ribs. U, The .
five falfe ribs. V, The dernum. X, The clavicle,,.
Y, The fcapula. Z, The os humeri, a. Ulna, b, Ra¬
dius. c, The eight bones of the carpus, d, The
five metacarpal bones, e. The phalanges of the fin-.
gers. f, The os femoris. g, The patella, h, The
tibia, i, Tire fibula, k. The feveu bones of the tar-.
fus. I, The five-metatarfal hopes, m. The phalan¬
ges of the toes.
Time XIII
o
Part I. A N A
Fig. 2. The internal view of the Os Frontis.
a. The fuperior ferrated edge, which aflifts to form the
coronal future, b, The external angular procefs.
. c. The internal angular procefs. cl. The nafal pro¬
cefs. e. The orbitar procefs. f, The frontal finus.
g, The fagittal future, wJiich (as here) is fometimes
continued to the nofe.
Fig. 3. The internal fide of the left Parietal bone.
a, Its fuperior edge, which, joined with the other, forms
the fagittal future, b, The anterior edge, which af-
fifts in the formation of the coronal future, c, The
inferior edge for the fquamous future, d, The pofte-
rior edge for the lambdoid future, e, A depreffion
made by the lateral finus. f. The prints of the prin¬
cipal artery of the dura mater.
Fig. 4. The internal view of the Occipital bone,
a a. The two fides, which aflift to form the lambdoid
future, b, The extremity of the cuneiform procefs,
where it joins the fphenoid bone, c c. The two con¬
dyloid procelfes, which articulate the head with the
fpine. d d. The prints made by the pofterior lobes
of the brain, e e. The prints made by the lobes of
the cerebellum, f, The cruciform ridge, g. The
foramen magnum, through which the fpinal marrow
paffes. h. The foramen linguale, for the paflage of
the ninth pair of nerves.
Fig. 5. The internal fide of the right Temp oral bone.
a, The upper edge which forms the fquamous future,
b, The pars mammillaris. c, The pars patrofa. d. The
zygomatic procefs. e, The ftyloid procefs. f. The
entry of the auditory nerve.
Fig, 6. The internal view of the Sphenoid bone.
a a’ ternP°<ra^ procefies. b b. The pterygoid pro-
cefles. cc, The fpinous procefl'es. d d, The poflerior
clinoid procefles. e e, The anterior clinoid precedes.
Tfie turcica, for lodging the glandula pituitaria.
g. The anterior procefs, which joins the ethmoid bone.
Fig. 7. The exterior view of the Ethmoid bone.
a. The pars plana, which forms part of the orbit.
b. The os fpongiofum fuperius. c. The nafal lamel¬
la. d, The ethmoid cells, e,. Crilla galli.
Fig. 8. The pofterior view of the Ossa Nasi.
a, Their fuperior fides. b, Their inferior fides. c. Their
exterior fides. d, Their joining.
Fig. 9. The fide of the Os Unguis next to the nofe.
a, The orbitar part, b, The lachrymal part, c, The
furrow between thefe two convex parts.
Fig. 10. The pofterior view of the right Os Mala:.
a, The fuperior .orbitar procefs. b. The inferior orbi-
Vol. I. No. 8. 2
r O M Y. iSp
tar procefs. c. The malar procefs. d, The zygo¬
matic procefs. e, The internal orbitar procefs.
Fig. II. A view of the lower part, and fide next to
the nofe, of the right Os Maxillare, with the Pa¬
late-bone, and Os Spongiosum Inferius.
a, The nafal procefs. b, The tuber, at the top of which
is the orbitar procefs, and within it, k, The antrum
maxillare. c, The nafal fpine. d, The os fpongio¬
fum inferius. e, The palate-plate, f, The os pala-
ti. g, The two dentes incifores. h. The dens ca-
ninus. i. The five dentes molares.
Fig. 12. The right Palate-Bone.
a, The palate-plate, b, The pterygoid procefs. c. The
nafal lamella, d, The orbitar procefs.
Fig. 13. A view of the fide next to the mouth of
the left fide of the lower jaw.
a, The fubftance in the middle of the chin, b. The
bafe. c, The angle, d, The coronoid procefs. e, The
condyloid procefs. f, The entry of the nerve and
blood-vefiels. g. The five molares.
Fig. 14. A Tooth cut perpendicularly.
a, The fibres of the enamel, b, The ofleous part, c, The
entry at the point of the root, to d. The channel for
the nerve and blood-veffels.
Fig. 15. A view of the interior furface of the Base
of the Skull.
AAA, The two tables of the Ikull, with the diploe.
B B, The orbitar proceffes of the frontal bone.
C, The crifta galli, with the cribriform-plate of the
ethmoid bone on each fide of it. D, The cuneiform
procefs of the os occipitis. E, The cruciform ridge.
F, The foramen magnum for the paffage of the me¬
dulla fpinalis. G, The zygoma, made by the join¬
ing of the zygomatic proceffes of the ofl'a temporum
and occipitis. H, The pars fquamofa of the os tem¬
porum. I, The pars mammillaris. K, The pars pe-
trofa. L, The temporal procefs of the fphencid bone.
M, The anterior clinoid procefs of die right fide.
N, The pofterior clinoid procefs of the right fide, and
between them, O, The fella turcica. 1. The fora¬
men opticum of the left fide. 2. The foramen lace-
rum. 3. The foramen rotundum.
Fig. 16. The frontal, occipital, fphenoid, and ethmoid
bones, being cut perpendicularly through the middle,
and the nafal, maxillary, and palate bones feparated
from each other, the interior view of the left fide of
the Cranium, and bones of the Upper Jaw, are re-
prefented.
A A, The two tables and diploe of the frontal and occi¬
pital bones. B, The coronal future. C, The ferra¬
ted edges of the parietal, for forming the fagittal fu¬
ture. D, Tire lambdoid future. E, The fquamous
t 3 B future.
190 A N A 1
future. F, The furrows made by the veffels of the
dura, mater. G, The frontal finus. H, The c rift a
galli. I, The nafal lamella of the ethmoid bone.
K, The temporal procefs of the fphenoid bone. L, The
fella turcica. M, The fphenoid finns. N, The vo¬
mer. O, The palate-plate of the fuperior maxillary
bone; and from it the proceflus alveolaris, which con¬
tains the teeth. P, The os nafi. The paflage
into the left noftril. i. The meatus auditorius in-
ternus, for the paflage of the auditory nerve. 2. The
pafiage of the ninth pair of nerves. 3.- The foramen
incifivum.
Fig. 17. The external furface of the bafe of the
Cranium and Upper Jaw.
A A, The lambdoid future. B, The fuperior horizon¬
tal ridge of the occipital bone, which is oppofite to
the cruciform ridge, where the fuperior longitudinal
EXPLANATION
Fig. 1. A pofterior view of the Sternum and Cla¬
vicles, with the ligament connecting the clavicles to
each, other.
a, The pofterior furface of the fternum. b b. The bro¬
ken ends of the cavicles. c c c c, The tubercles near
the extremity of each clavicle, d, The ligament
connecting the clavicles.
Fig. 2. A fore view of the Left Scapula, and of
a half of the Clavicle, with their ligaments.
a, The fpine of the fcapula. b, The acromion, c, The
inferior angle, d, Inferior cofta. e. Cervix, f. Gle¬
noid cavity, covered with cartilage for the arm-bone,
g g, The capfular ligament of the joint, h, Coracoid,
procefs. i. The broken end of the clavicle, k, Its
extremity joined to the acromion. 1, A ligament co¬
ming out Angle from the acromion to the coracoid pro¬
cefs. m, A ligament coming out Angle from the a-
cromion, and dividing into two, which are Axed to the
coracoid procefs.
Fig. 3. The joint of the elbow of the Left Arm,
with the ligaments.
a. The os humeri, b, Its internal condyle, c c, The
two prominent parts of its trochlea, appearing through
the capfular ligament, d, The ulna, e, The radius,
f, The part of the ligament including the head of the
radius.
Fig. 4. The Bones of the Right-hand, with the
Palm in view.
a, The radius, b. The ulna, c, The fcaphoid bone
of the carpus, d. The oa lunare. e. The os cunei-
forme. f, The os piAforme. g, Trapezium, h, Tra-
pezoides. i, Capitatum. k, Unciforme. 1, The
four metacarpal bones of the fingers, m, The Sift
O M Y. Part I.
finus divides to form the lateral finufes. • C, The per¬
pendicular ridge. D, The inferior horizontal ridge.
E, The foramen magnum, for the pafiage of the me¬
dulla fpinalis. F F, The two condyles. G, The
cuneiform procefs. H H, The zygomatic procefs
of the temporal bone. I I, The maftoid procefles.
K, The vomer, which forms the back-part of the fep-
tum nafi. L L, The ftyloid procefles. M M, The
foflas at the root of the maftoid procefles, for the po¬
fterior belly of the digaftric mufcle. N N, The ca¬
vities for receiving the condyles of the lower jaw.
O O, The ofla palati. P, The longitudinal palate-
future. The tranfverfe palate-future. R, The
alveoli, or Ipongy fockets for the teeth. 3, The zygo¬
matic procefs of the ofla malarum. T T, The zy¬
gomatic future. 1. Meatus auuitorius externus.
2.' Hole for the internal carotid artery. 3. For the
artery of the dura mater. 4. Foramen ovale, for the
third \branch of the fifth pair, to the upper jaw.
of PLATE XXV.
phalanx, n. The fecond phalanx. o, The third
phalanx, p. The metacarpal bone of the thumb.
4, The firft joint, r, The fecond joint.
Fig. 5. The pofterior view of the Bones of the Left
Hanp.
The explication of Fig. 4. ferves for this figure; the
fame letters pointing the fame bones, though in a dif¬
ferent view.
Fig. 6. The upper extremity of the Tibia, with the
femilunar cartilages of the joint of the knee, and forae
ligaments.
a, The ftrong ligament which connefts the rotula to the
tubercle of the tibia, b b, The parts of the extremi¬
ty of the tibia, covered with cartilage, which appear
within the femilunar cartilages, c c, The femiiunar
carriages, ^d. The two parts of what is called the
crofs ligament.
Fig. 7. The pofterior view of the joint of the
Right Knee.
a, The os femoris cut. b, Its internal condyle, c, Its
external condyle, d, The back-part of the tibia,
e, The fuperior extremity of the fibula, f. The edge
of the internal femilunar cartilage, g. An oblique li¬
gament. h, A larger perpendicular ligament, i, A
. ligament connecting the femur and fibula.
Fig. 8. The anterior view of the joint of the
Right Knee.
b. The internal condyle. c. Its external condyle,
d. The part of the os femoris, on which the patella
moves, e, A perpendicular ligament, f f. The two
parts of the crucial ligaments, g g. The edges of
the two moveable femilucar cartilages, h. The tibia.
i. The
Hate^XIV.
Part I. ANATOMY. ipi
i, The ftrong ligament of the patella.—The back-part
of it where the fat has been diile&ed away. 1, The
external depreffion. m. The internal one. n, The
cut tibia.
Fig. 9. A view of the inferior part of the bones of
the Right Foot.
a, The great knob of the os calcis. b, A prominence
on its outfide. c, The hollow for the tendons, nerves,
and blood-veffels. d, The anterior extremity of the
os calcis. e, Part of the lltragalus. f. Its head co-
' vered with cartilage, g, The internal prominence of
the os naviculare. h, T.he os cuboides. i, The os
cuneiforme internum; k,—Medium; 1, —-Exter¬
num. m, The metatarfal bones of the four Idler toes,
n, The firll—o, The fecond—p. The third phalanx
. of the four Idler toes, q, The metatarfal bones of
: the great toe. r, Its firft— s. Its fecond joint.
Fig. 10. The inferior furface of the two large Sesa¬
moid Bones, at the firft joint of the grfeat toe.
Fig. 11. The foperior view of the bones of the
Right Foot.
a, b, as in Fig. 9. c. The fuperior head of the aftra-
galus. d, <bc. as in Fig. 9.
Fig. 12. The view of the Sole of the Foot with
its ligaments.
a, The great knob of the os calcis. b. The hollow for
the tendons, nerves, and blood-veffels. c. The fneaths
. of the flexores pollicis and digitorum longi opened,
d, The ftrong cartilaginous ligament fupporting the
head of the aftragalus. e, h, Two ligaments which
unite into one, and are fixed to the metatarfal bone of
the great toe. f, A ligament from the knob of the os
calcis to the metatarfal bone of the little toe. g, A
ftrong triangular ligament, which fupports the bones
of the tarfus. i. The ligaments of the joints of the
five metatarfal bones.
Fig. 13. a. The head of the thigh-bone of a child,
b, The ligamentum rotundum conneding it to the ace-
tabulum. c, The capfular ligament of the joint with
its arteries injeded. d. The numerous vdfels of the
mucilaginous gland injeded.
Fig. 14. The back view of the cartilages of the La¬
rynx, with the Os Hyoides.
a, The pofterior part of the bafe of the os hyoides.
b b, Its cornua, c, The appendix of the right fide.
d, A ligament fent out from the appendix of the left
fide, to the ftyloid procefs of the temporal bone.
e. The union of the bafe with the left cornu, f f. The
pofterior fides of (g) the thyroid cartilage, h h, Its
fuperior cornua. i i, Its inferior cornua, k. The
cricoid cartilage. 1 1, The arytenoid cartilages,
m, The entry into the lungs, named glottis, n. The
epiglottis, o o, The fuperior cartilages of the tra¬
chea. p, Its ligamentous back-part.
Fig. 15. The fuperior concave furface of the Sesa¬
moid Bones at the firft joint of the great toe, with
their ligaments.
a. Three fefamoid bones, b, The ligamentous fubftance
in which they are formed.
R T II.
P A
OF THE
Sect. I. Of the Muscles in general.
rTHE mufcles are bunflts of fibres of different figures
and fizes, and for the moft part confining of two
different portions; one whereof is thick, fpft, and more
or lefs red, forming what is called the body, fldhy lub-
ftance, or belly of the mufcle. The ether is thin and
fmall, of a ciofe contexture, and very white, forming
the extremities, termed by anatomifts tendons or aponen-
*ofes. Both portions are covered by a particular mem¬
brane.
The fibres arc, for the moft part, ranked in fafei-
ccli, in a lateral fituation with refpcct to each other, and
dhtmgnifned by»membranous, cellular, or adipofe fepta,
as by fo many particular vaginae.
MUSCLES.
Thefe fibres are connected to each other, and to the
intermediate fepta, by a great number of very fmall fine
filaments, the capillary extremities of arteries, veins, and
nerves running over them; and they are inclofed in a
thin membranous, cellular covering, called the proper
membrane of the mufcle, being a continuation of the
fepta or vaginae already mentioned.
The dilpofition of the fibres is various: fome are dif-
pofed like radii; others form planes more or lefs incurva-
fed; and fome form complete circumferences, the two
extremities meeting and uniting together.
The difference of mufcles is very confiderable, and
depends on many circumftances; the chief of which are,
the fize, figure, diredtion, fituation, ftrudture, connec¬
tion, and uie; and it is from thefe differences that the
names of the gieateft part of the mufeks are taken.
From
o
M Y.
Part I.
i92 A N A T
From'their fize they are termed great, middle, /mail,
long, broad, thin : From their figure, triangular, fca-
knous, fqnare. See. From their dire&ion, f.rait, ob¬
lique, tranfverfe . From their fituation, fuperior, infe¬
rior, external, &c.
With refpe6t to their flrufture, mufeles are either
fimple or compound. Simple mufcles are thofe whofe
fiefhy fibres, or rather the fiefiiy portions of their mo¬
ving fibre's, are all uniformly difpofed, and terminate in
tendons lying either in a ilrait or oblique line.
, Compound mufcles are thofe whole fleihy fibres are
difpofed obliquely in feyeral particular ranks, reprefent-
ing the fame number of finjple. mufcles, with their fibres,
lying in oppofite diredlions. In proportion to the num¬
ber of thefe ranks or feries, the mufcle is faidtabe more
or lefs compounded.
When the compound mufcle is made up of two fimple
mufcles only, thefe are fo difpofed as to reprefent a fea¬
ther, and the compound mufcle is from thence termed
penniform.
Some are made up of two mufcles more or lefs, in a
lateral fituation with refpect to each other, and united at
one extremity: others are made up of three or four muf-
des, fituated in the fame manner ; and if they are united
at that extremity which the ancients called the head of the
mufcle, they are called bicipites, tricipites, &c. accord¬
ing to the number of thefe heads;. but if they are joined
at the other extremity,' they'are termed bicornes,' tricor-
nes. See,
The mufcles are fixed by their extremities to different
parts, and in different places of the human body. The
greateft part of them are inferted in bones alone. Some
are fixed partly to bones, and partly to cartilages; as
thofe of the ear and nofe: fome partly to bones, and
partly to the integuments; as feveral mufcles of the face.
The names taken from the connexions and infertions
of mufcles are generally of two kinds; one common,
and referred to fome confiderable part of the body; as
when we fay, the mufcles of the head, of the thorax,
abdomen, &c. ; the other proper, fpecifying more par¬
ticularly the infertions of each mufcle, as the maftoideus,
fferno-maftoideus, <6'c.
The general ufe of the mufcles is to move all the parts
of the body, whether hard, foft, or fluid. Moft of the
hard and foft parts are moved by thefe powers being fix¬
ed to them, and they move the relt without any fuch in-
fertion.
The adlion of the mufcles in general, confiffs chiefly
in the contraXion or ftiortening of their flefhy portion;
by which the extremities of the mufcle are brought near¬
er to each other, and confequently the parts are moved
to which thefe extremities are fixed.
The principal phenomena of mufcular aXion are
thefe : The flefhy portion appears harder and more fwell-
ed in the time of aXion than of inaXion, as may be rea¬
dily perceived by touching it in both ftates : The hard-
nefs of this fwelling increafes in proportion as the mo¬
tion is continued, as is likewife evident by the touch;
and it likewife increafes by merely adding to the weight
or refiftance of the part moved, though its fituation does
jiot continue to be changed.
Sect. II. Muscles o/" the Abdomen.
By the mufcles of the abdomen, or lower belly, we
mean thofe which form principally .the fides.or circum¬
ference of that cavity. They are commonly ten in num¬
ber, five on each fide; eight whereof are very large, the
other two very finall.
OBLIQUUS EXTERNUS.
The obliquus externus is a broad thin mufcle, flefhy
on its upper and back-part, and tendinous on the ante¬
rior and greateft portion of the lower part. It reaches
from half the lateral and inferior part of the thorax, to
almoft half the lateral and fuperior part of the pelvis; and
from the back-part of the regio lumbaris to the linea alba.
It is fixed, by its upper part, to the ribs; by the
lower, to the os ilium, ligamentum Fallopii, and os pu¬
bis ; and, by the fore-part, to the linea alba. . The pp-
fterior porrion next the vertebrae of the Icfins has com¬
monly no true mufcular infertions.
OBLIQJJUS INTERNUS.
The internal oblique is a broad thin mufcle like the
former, having nearly the fame extent and infertions;
that is, in the lower ribs above; in the crifta of the os
ilium and ligamentum Fallopii, below; and in the linea
alba, before: but it differs from it in this, that its low¬
er part is more flefhy than the upper.
One portion of its lower extremity, which is entirely
flefhy, is fixed, by very fhort tendinous fibres, in the
middle fpace between the two labia of the crifta oflis ili¬
um, from the back-part of the tuberofity of that crifta,
near the fymphyfis of the os facrum, almoft all the way
to the fuperior and anterior fpine of the os ilium; lb
that its infertion reaches farther back than that of the
external oblique.
The flefhy fibres thus fixed, run up firft a little oblique¬
ly from behind forward, and then this obliquity increafes
proportionably as the fibres lie more anteriorly, and they
crofs thofe of the flefhy portion of the external oblique,
being afterwards inferted exteriorly in the lower edges of
the cartilages of all the falfe ribs, and thofe of the two
lowett true ribs, reaching to the extremity of the carti-
lago enfifermis.
This mufcle is likewife called obliquus defeendens, for
the fame reafon that the former is termed afeendens, ob¬
liquus inferior, and obliquus minor, becaufe it does not
reach fo high, and is not quite fo large as the external
oblique.
MUSCULI RECTI.
TnE.reXi are long narrow mufcles, thicker than the
obliqui. They lie near each other like two large bands,
from the lower part of the thorax, to the os pubis, the
linea alba coming between them. Their breadth dimi-
nifhes, and their thicknefs increafes gradually from above
downward.
The
Part If . ANA
• The fuperlor extremity of each mufcle is fixed to a
part of the lower extremity of the (ternum, to the three
lowe.fi: true ribs, and to the firft falfe rib, by the fame
number of digitations, of which that which is fartheft
from the fternum is the broadeft.
The body of the mufcle lies in the vagina, formed by
•tire aponeurofis of the broad mufcles of the abdomen.
-Exteriorly, it is divided into feveral portions, refembling
difiinft mufcles placed endways, by tranfverfe tendons,
termed enervations, which commonly are all above the
umbilicus, very feldom below it, and they adhere very
clofe to the vagina.
The lower extremity of this miifcle is narrower than
the upper, and ends in a thin tendon fixed in the inter¬
nal labium of the upper edge of the os pubis, near the
fymphyfis, and there it touches the tendon of the other
red us.
MUSCULI PYRAMIDALES.
T O M Y. IP3
fort of trituration, of great importance to the animal ce-
conomy. They comprefs the abdomen, in order to clear
it of what ought to pafs olf by the natural outlets; to
relieve the ftomach, by vomiting, from whatever might
be hurtful to it; and, laftly, to drive out, by a violent
expiration, whatever may incommode the organs contain¬
ed in the thorax.
The mufculi redi ferve to fupport the trunk of the
body when inclined backward, and to bend or bring it
forward again; to raife the body up when lying; and,
laltly, to climb.
The pyramidales feem only to affifl the adion of the
redi; though, when we confider the oblique diredion
of their fibres toward the linea alba, there may be fome
reafon to think that they comprefs the bladder, cfpecially
when very full of urine.
The tranfverfaies feem to have no other ufe than that
of bracing or girding the abdomen in different degrees.
At the lower part of the redi, we meet commonly
with two fmall mufcles, which at firft feem to be a por¬
tion or appendix of the former. They are named pyra¬
midales from their figure; and by Fallopius, fuccentu-
At the lower extremity, they are broad and thick,
being there fixed to the upper edge of the offa pubis,
immediately before the redi. They decreafe gradually
in breadth and thicknefs as they afcend, and end by a
point in the linea alba,, a little way bsfow the umbilicus.
TRANSVERSALES.
The’ tranfverfe mufcles are nearly of the fame breadth
with the obliques. Each of them is fixed to the ribs a-
bove; below, to the os ilium, and ligamentum Fallo-
pii; before, to the linea alba; and behind, to the ver¬
tebra:.
The upper part of this mufcle is fixed to the lower
part of the inner furface of the cartilages of the two
ioweft true ribs, and of all the five falfe ribs, by flelhy
digitations, the fibres of which run more or lefs tranf-
verfely toward the' linea alba, at fome diftanco from
which, they become tendinous.
The middle part is fixed to the three firft vertebras
of the loins, by a double aponeurofis, or two tendinous
planes, one internal or anterior, the other external or
pofterior.
The inferior part of this mufcle is fixed by an infer-
tion wholly fieihy to the internal labium of the crifta of-
fis ililim, and to a great part of the ligamentum Fallopii.
From thence many of its fibres run towards the linea al¬
ia, the reft to the cs pubis, all of them bcccming more
or lefs tendinous before their infertion.
USES of the ABDOMINAL MUSCLES.
The common ufes are, to fuftain the vifcera of the ab¬
domen, and to counterbalance the perpetual motions of
ordinary refpiration, and thereby gently and continually
a£l on the vifcera; which adlion may be reckoned a
Vol. I. No. 9. 3
Sect. III. The Muscles which move the
Bones of the Shoulder upon the Trunk.
TRAPEZIUS.
The trapezius is a large, broad, thin, fleflry plane,
fituated between the occiput and lower part of the back,
and from thence extending to the ftioulder, in the figure
of a large irregular fquare. From this figure the ancient
Greeks took its name, and, together with the trapezius
of the other fide, it forms a kind of lozenge.
Above, it is fixed in the fuperior tranfverfe line of
the os occipitis, by a thin feries of fiefhy fibres, reach¬
ing to the mufcuius occipitalis* and appearing to cover
that mufcle by a kind of aponeurofis. Behind, it is fix¬
ed to the five fuperior fpinal apophyfes of the neck, by
means of the pofterior cervical ligament, and immediate¬
ly to the extremities of the two loweft ipinal apophyfes
of the neek, and of all thofe of the back.
This mufcle covers immediately the fplenius or maftoi-
dasus fuperior, part of the complexus major, the angula-
ris, rhomboides, and part of the Jatiffimus dorfi. -y,
RHOMBOIDS S.
Tuts mufcle is a thin, broad, and obliquely fquare
flelhy plane, fituated between the bafis of the fcapula and
the fpina d^rfi ; and it is from its figure that it has been
termed rhomkoides.
It may be divided into two portions, one fuperior, the
other inferior, which fometimes appear feparate. The
fuperior portion is fixed, by an infertion wholly flelhy,
in the two or three loweft fpinal apophyfes of the neck,
and partly in the pofterior cervical ligament. The infe¬
rior portion is fixed, by a tendinous plane, in the three
or four uppermoft fpinal apophyfes of the back.
Thefe two portions, of which the inferior is by much
the broadeft, being united, are inferted in the edge of
the bafis fcapuloe, from the fmall triangular fpace to the
inferior angle, the fuperior portion covering a fmall part
of the infertion of the angularis.
t 3C
This
I ?4 ANATOMY. Part il.
This whole mufcle is covered by the trapezius, and increafes gradually in breadth, and is infected in all the
covers immediately the ferratus pofticus fuperior, being true ribs, and often in one or two of the falfe ribs, by the
joined to each of thefe mufcles by a filamentary or cellu- fame number of digitations.
lous fubftance.
SUBCLAVIUS.
Angularis, vulgo Levator Scapula: Proprius.
This is a long, and pretty thick mufcle, about two
fingers in breadth, lying above the fuperior angle of the
fcapula, along the pofterior lateral part of the neck of
that bone.
It is inferted above ill the extremities of the tranfverfe
apophyfes of the four firft vertebrae of the neck, by four
flefhy branches, ending in fhort tendons; fometimes the
fecond, fometimes the third, or both, and fometimes the
fourth of thefe branches, is wanting; thefe defedfs being
made up by the largenefs of the reft.
From, thence thefe branches run down a little oblique¬
ly, and then uniting together, they are inferted in the
fuperior angle of the fcapuia, and in the edge of its ba¬
lls, from thence to the fmall triangular fpace, being there
covered a little by the rhomboides.
This mufcle is eafily divided into two through its
whole length. It is covered by the trapezius, and its
infertions in the heck are fometimes mixed with thofe of
ihe neighbouring mufcles.
PECTORALIS MINOR.
This is a fmall flelhy mufcle, fomething of a triangu¬
lar fliape, fituated at the fuperior, lateral, and anterior
part of the thorax.
By its bafis it is inferted in the external labium of the
upper edge of the fecond, third, fourth, and fifth true
ribs; near their union with the cartilages, by the fame
number of digkations or feparate flelhy portions, becaufe
of the intervals between the ribs; and for that reafon it
has been called ferratus minor antic us.
From thence thefe portions run up, more or lefs, ob¬
liquely toward the Ihoulder, and form a flelhy belly,
which contradls as it pafles before the two firfl: ribs, and
then becoming a Ihort, flat, and broad tendon, is infert¬
ed in the upper part of the apophyfis coracoides of the
fcapula, reaching all the way to the point of that
procefs.
■ This mufcle is covered by the pedloralis major, and
adheres very clofely to the external interccftal mufcles.
SERRATUS MAJOR.
This is a broad, flelhy, and pretty thick mufcle, ly¬
ing on the lateral part of the thorax, between the ribs
and fcapula, by which it is covered. Its figure is that of
an irregular fquare, its greateft breadth being in the
back-part, where it terminates by digitations of unequal
lengths, in a radiated difpofition, their extremities de-
fcribing an arch or curve; and from thele digitations its
name is taken.
It is inferted backward in the internal labium of all the
bafis of the fcapula, from the fuperior to the inferior
angle. From thence running forward wholly flelhy, it
Th i s is a fmall oblong mufcle, lying between the cla¬
vicle and firll rib. It is fixed by one end in all the mid¬
dle lower portion of the clavicle, at the diftance of about
an inch'from each extremity; and by the other in the
cartilage and a fmall part of the bone of the firft rib.
It feems likewife to adhere to the extremity of the cla¬
vicle next the fternum, by a kind of broad thin ligament.
Uses of the Muscles nuhich move Bones of the
Shoulder on the Trunk.
The mechanifm of the fcapula, in relation to its mo¬
tions and changes of lituation, is very different from that
of all the other bones of the body, except the os hy-
oides. All the other bones have folid fulcra or fixed
points, on which they are either moved'or fixed by the
mufcles; but the motions of the fcapula, its changes of
fituation, and its continuance in any one given attitude,
are brought about without the help of any foiid fulcrum.
The mufcles alone fuftain it and brace it down, in all its
different motions and fituations.
The fcapula has this peculiarity likewife belonging to
it, that it is the fulcrum and bafis of all the motions of
the os humeri, bf fome motions of the fore-arm, and
even of all the moft violent efforts made with thefe
bones, without being itfelf either moved or fixed.on any
folid bafis.
The ufe of the trapezius is to raife the fhoulder, and
to keep it from finking.
The ferratus major raifes the fhoulder or top of the
fcapula, brings it forward, and hinders it from finking.
In all thefe, it is the principal adtor; and it is impofiible
to conceive how labourers raife and fupport, by the
fhoulder alone, the heavy burdens with which they are
loaded, without the afliftance of this mufcle.
According to the infertions and direction of the rhom¬
boides, its general ufe muft be, to draw backward and
upward the fub-fpinal portion of the bafis fcapulas.
It is likewife a moderator to the trapezius and ferratus
major, when they raife the fhoulder, or carry the acro-
mium upward; and it brings the fcapula back to its na¬
tural fituation, when the adtion of thefe mufcles ceafes.
The angularis, by its infertion in the fuperior angle of
the fcapula, moderates the defcent of that angle, while
the trapezius and ferratus major raife the acrortiium.
Afterwards, when thefe two mufcles ceafe to adf, the
angularis raifes the fuperior angle, and by that means de-
preffes the acromium.
The pedloralis minor aflifts the rhomboides and angu¬
laris, as moderators of the adlion of the trapezius and
ferratus major, in turning the point of the acromium up¬
ward, the fuperior angle downward, and the inferior
angle forward.
It is likewife an afliftant to the rhomboides and angu¬
laris, in ref Coring the fcapula to its natural fituation,
when
Part II. ANA
when the trapezius and Terrains major ceafe to adt; by
drawing downward the apophyfis coracoides, in which it
is inferted.
The fubclavius can have no other ordinary ufe, but to
bring down the clavicula, after it has been raifed, toge¬
ther with the acromium, by the adtion of the trapezius
and ferratus major.
Sect. IV. The Muscles which move the
Os Humeri on the Scapula.
DELTOIDES.
This is a very thick mufcle, covering the upper part
of the arm, and forming what is termed the flump of the
{boulder. It is broad above, and narrow below, in a
triangular form; and its name is taken from the refem-
blance it bears to the Greek letter A delta.
, It is made up of eighteen or twenty fmall Angle muf-
cles, in an oppofite fituation with refpedt to each other,
and united by middle tendons ; fo that, taken all together,
they form feveral penniform mufcles. The outer furface
appears almofl wholly flelhy, but on the inner furface we
fee the feveral tendons.
Above, it is fixed in the whole inferior labium of the
fpina fcapulas, in the convex or long edge of the acro¬
mium, and in the third part of the anterior edge of the
clavicle next that apoph3'fis. It furrounds the angle
formed by the articulation of thefe two bones, by a par¬
ticular Hope and fold contrived for that purpofe.
From thence it runs down above one third of the
length of the os humeri, where it is inferted, by a thick
tendon, in the large mufedar rough impreffion below the
bony ridge which goes from the great tuberofity of the
head of the bone.
PECTORALIS MAJOR.
This is a large, thick, and flefliy mufcle, covering
the fore-part of the breaft, from the fternum, where it
is very broad, to the axilla, where it contraft's in its paf-
fage to the arm.
The infertions in the flernum end by a great number
of very fliort tendons which run toward the middle of
the bone, meeting and decuffating thofe from the fame
mufcle on the other fide. The lower infertions are
moft diftinftly digitated, and they mix with thofe belong¬
ing to the reftus and obliquus externus of the abdomen,
there being likewife feveral fafciculi of fibres common to
the pedtoralis with thefe mufcles. This portion is alfo fix¬
ed to the ribs by internal ftefhy ftrata covered by the ex¬
ternal infertions, and forming, together with them, the
thicknefs of the mufcle.
From thence all the flefliy fibres contrail in breadth,
and approach each other, in their paflage to the arm.
The fuperior fibres run downward, joining thofe of the
clavicular portion; thofe next them run lefs obliquely-;
the following more or lefs tranfverfely ; and the inferior
run upward, in the fame manner.
This mufcle, together with the ddtoides, fends off
an aponeurofis, which, joining that of the biceps, is
fpread over the mufcles of the arm.
LATISSIMUS DORSE
This is a broad, thin, and moftly flefliy mufcle, lying
between the axilla, where it is very narrow, and the
back on which it expands itfelf by radiated fibres, both
in length and breadth, from the middle of the back all
the way to the lower part of the regio lumbaris; and
from this fituation it has its name.
Its infertions are partly tendinous, and partly fleffiy.
In the firft place, it is fometimes, but not always, fixed
in the inferior cofta of the fcapula near the angle, by a
fafciculus of flefliy fibres. In the next place, it is fixed
by an aponeurofis, in the fpinal apophyfes of the fix or
feven, and fometimes eight loweft vertebra; of the back,
in thofe of all the vertebra; of the loins, in the fuperior
fpines and lateral parts of the os facrum, and in the ex¬
ternal labium of the pofterior part of the os ilium.
TERES MAJOR.
This is a long, thick, flat mufcle, fituated a little
obliquely between the inferior angle of the fcapula, and
the upper part of the arm.
It is fixed by its poflerior flefliy extremity in all the
large angular furface on the outfide of the fcapula, in the
inferior cofla of that bone, and near the angle. From
thence it advances with longitudinal fibres toward the up¬
per quarter of the os humeri, terminating in a broad
flat tendon intermixed with fome flefliy fibres, which at
the upper edge are continued all the way to the infertion,
lying in the fame place with the tendon.
It is inferted, by its anterior extremity, at the lower
part of the bony ridge of the fmall tuberofity, along the
edge of the channel, almoft oppofite to, and fometimes a
little lower than the infertion of the peftoralis major. It
lines the cavity of*the channel by a tendinous elongation,
which joins that from the peftoralis, and feems to be
continued with it.
TERES MINOR..
This is a very flefliy mufcle, refembling the teres
major, but narrower and Ihorter. It lies above the fait
named mufcle, between the cofta inferior of the fcapula,
and the head of the os humeri.
It is fixed by one end to all the middle part of the in¬
ferior cofta of the fcapula, and to the long particular fur¬
face immediately above that cofta, reaching from the '
great angular furface near the neck of the bone. From
thence it runs wholly flefliy, till it changes into a flat ten¬
don,which is inferted in the pofterior or inferior fitrface
of the great tuberofity of the head of the hone, and like¬
wife a little lower down.
INFRA-SPIN ATU S.
This is a triangular, flefliy, and pretty broad mufcle,.
in fome meafure penniform, filling the whole infra-fpinal
cavity or foffa of the fcapula.
ft
i<$ A N A T
It is fixed in the pdfterior half of the icfra-fpinal ca¬
vity -or fofia, and to the correfponding part of the bafis
of the fcapuia.
From-thence arlfe a great number of (hart fiefhy fibres,
.which run more or lefs obliquely, and end in a middle
'tendinous plane, which terminates a little below the
.broadefi part of the fpine of the fcapuia, under the root
of the acromium.
Then the flefhy fibres, leaving the bone, unite in
one flefhy mafs, which, palling under the acrpmium, o-
ver the articulation of the head of the os humeri, and
adhering to the capfular ligament, terminates there in a
flat broad tendon, which, adhering likewife to the capfula,
is afterwards inferted in the greater middle furface of the
great tuberofity of the head of the os humeri.
S UPR A-SPIN ATU S.
This is a thick narrow mufcle, in fome meafure pen-
niform, filling all the fupra-fpinal-cavity of the fcapuia.
It is fixed to all the pofterior half of the fupra-fpinal
foffa; and fometimes its infertion reaches near the neck
of the bone. There the fibres leave the furface of the
bone, and pafs between the acromium and neck of the
fcapuia, under the arch formed by the acromium and ex¬
tremity of the clavicle, and under the ligament between
the acromium and apophyfis coracoides ; being afterwards
inferted in the fuperior furface of the great tuberofity of
the head of the os humeri, very near the bony channel.
C ORACO-B RA CHI ALI S.
This is a long mufcle lying on the infide of the up¬
per half of the os humeri.
It is fixed above to the point of the coracoid apophy-
fis, between the infertions of the biceps and pedoralis
minor, by a tendon, which, as it defcends, adheres for
a good way to the tendons of thefe two mufcles. Af¬
terwards it becomes flefhy, and is inferted by a broad
thin extremity, with a fmall mixture of tendinous fibres,
in the middle part of the os humeri.
SUB3CAPULARIS.
This mufcle is of the fame breadth and length with
the fcapuia, of which it occupies all the inner or con¬
cave fide ; and from this fituation it has its name. It is
thick, and made up of feveral penniform portions nearly
in the fame manner with the deltoides.
It is fixed in the internal labium of the whole bafis,
and in almoft the whole internal furface of the fcapuia;
its fielhy portions lying in the intervals between the bony
lines, when thefe are found. Near the neck, they leave
the bone, and form a very broad tendon which is inferr¬
ed in. the furface of the fmall tuberofity of the head of
the os humeri.
Uses of ^Muscles 'which tneve ihe Os Humeri
on thee Scapula.
The deltoides, from the difpofition of its infertions
in the fcapuia and clavicle, may- raife the arm, or fepa-
O M Y. Part \l
rate it from the ribs, not only direAly, but likwife ob¬
liquely in many different ways. The arm being lifted
dire&ly upward, the lateral, anterior, and pofterior por¬
tions of this mufcle may bring the arm, fo raifed, for¬
ward and backward.
The laciifimus dorfi ferves in- general to bring down
the arm when raifed; it alfo ferves to deprefs the fhoul-
der, or to maintain it in that fituation againft any force
that endeavours to raife it; as when we lean upon the
elbow in fitting, or walk upon crutches.
The peftoralis major ferves in general to bring the
arm near the ribs, to prefs it fixongly againft them, and
to carry it towards the fore-part of the thorax.
The teres major, by being inferted in the os humeri
in a direction parallel to the latiffimus dorfi, becomes a
congener to the fuperior and pofterior portion of that
mufcle; and accordingly moves the os humeri in the
fame manner with it. It turns the bone round its axis,
when the fore-arm is carried behind the back.
It likewife pulls the arm dire&ly backward, without
moving it round its axis.
The coraco-brachialis brings the arm to the forefide
of the thorax, railing it at the fame time; and, in this
cafe, it may be reckoned a congener or afliftant to the pec-
toralis major in great efforts; and may perform the fame
motion by itfelf, when no great force is neceffary; as
when the whole arm hangs down, and is moved back¬
ward and forward like a pendulum, the motion forward
being performed by the coraco-brachialis, and the mo¬
tion backward by the teres major, its antagonift.
This mufcle may likewife move the fcajmla on the os
humeri kept firmly depreffed, as when fitting in a chair
we take fall hold of the edge of it with the hand, In
this cafe the coraco-brachialis may bring the arcromium
downward, and the inferior angle of the fcapuia, near
the vertebra;. It ferves likewife to bring the arm to its
former lunation, after it has been turned by the latifli-
mus dorfi, in order to apply the hand to the back; and
then it turns the os humeri upon its axis in a contrary di-
reftion to that given it by the other mufcle.
The’fupra-fpinatus joins with the deltoides in lifting
up the arm; this mufcle beginning that aiftion, and the
deltoides continuing it.
The infra-fpinatus being inferted by its tendon in the
middle furface of the great tuberofity of the os humeri,
muft perform different motions according to the different
fituations of that bone'. If it aAs while the arm hangs
down, parallel to the trunk of the body, it may move
the os humeri round its axis, from before outward; and
confequently, if the fore-arm be at the fame time bent,
it will turn the hand from the body, e^r.
When the arm hangs down in its natural fituaticn,
the fubfcapularis may turn it round its axis, from with¬
out forward, as it happens when in this fituation we beat
the breaft with the fore-arm bent; and it likewife ftrong-
ly affifts the latifiimus doifi, when we turn the hand be¬
hind the back.
When the arm being raifed, we move it backward, as
in giving a baCk-ftroke with the elbow or lift, the fub¬
fcapularis hinders the head of the os humeri from being
luxated forward.
The
Part II. A N A T
The teres minor may turn the arm when deprefled
round its axis, from before outward; as it happens
when the fore-arm, being bent and applied to the lower
.part of the breaft, is removed from thence, without mo¬
ving the elbow from the fide.
Sect. V. The Muscles ivhich move the
Bones of the Fore-arm on the Os Humeri.
BICEPS five CORACO-R ADIALIS.
This is a double mufcle made up of two long flelhy
bodies, more or lefs round, lying by the fide of each o-
ther, on the middle anterior part, and a little toward
the infide of the arm. Thefe two bodies are feparated
above, each of them ending in a fmall tendon. As they
run down they become contiguous, and afterwards clofe-
ly united by one common.broad tendon.
It is fixed by one of the fuperior tendons, in the apex
of the coracoid apophyfis of the fcapula.
The other fuperior tendon is fmalier and longer than
the former, and the flelhy body belonging to it Ihorter
and more compounded. This tendon is lodged in the
bony channel of the os humeri, being furrounded by a
membranous vagina continued from the capfular liga¬
ment, and ending at the flelhy body where it is entirely
clofed.
B R A C H I .E U S.
This is an oblong, thick, and broad mufcle, lying
immediately on the anterior part of the lower half of the
os humeri. The upper part of it is forked or floped,
and at the bending of the joint of the elbow the lower
part contradis.
It is fixed to the furface of the os humeri by a great
number of flefliy fibres, from the lower infertion of the
deltoides, almoft down to the two foflSe at the lower ex¬
tremity of the bone, and from one edge of the forefide
of this lower extremity to the other. The fibres are
for the moft: part longitudinal, thofe neareft the furface
of the mufcle being longeft, the more internal growing
- gradually Ihorter.
ANCONEUS MAJOR.
This is a long flelhy mufcle lying on the backfide of
the os humeri.
It is fixed above by a Ihort tendon to the inferior im-
preflicn in the neck of the fcapula, and to a fmall part
' of the inferior cofta of that bone. From thence it paf-
fes between the extremities of the fubfcapularis and te¬
res minor, and, having reached the backfide of the low¬
er extremity of the os humeri, it ends obliquely in a
ftrong broad tendon, which, adhering clofely in the cap-
fular ligament, is afterwards fixed by a broad infertion
in the rough tuberofity on the upper fide of the olecranum.
ANCONJEUS EXTERNUS.
. Th i - is a long mufcle lying on the outer part of the
Vol. I. No. 9. 3
O M Y. 197
backfide of the os humeri, from its neck to the external
condyle.
It is ■ fixed above in the neck of the os humeri under
the inferior furface of the great tuberoiity, and under
the infertion of the teres minor, but a little more back¬
ward. It is likewife fixed by fome oblique fibres in the
external inter-mufeuiar ligament.
ANCONaEUS INTERNUS.
This mufcle is Ihorter and more flelhy than the an-
conacus externus, and lies toward the inner part of the
lower half of the os humeri.
It is fixed above, under the lower extremity of the
teres major, but a little more backward, and to the in¬
ternal inter-mufcular ligament, which makes a kind of
feptum between this mufcle and the brachissus. From
thence the fibres contradting in breadth, pafs toward the
tendon of the anconseus major, fome of them running in
between it and the bone, and are inferted in the edge
and inner fide of that tendon.
ANCONEUS MINOR.
This is a fmall mufcle obliquely triangular, lying in
the oblong folfula on the outfide of the olecranum.
It is fixed by a fmall, but pretty ftrong tendon, in the
lower part of the external condyle of the os humeri.
From thence the flefhy fibres run down obliquely in a ra¬
diated form, and are inferted in the bottom and whole
pofterior edge of the folfula already mentioned.
Uses of the Mufcles 'which move the Bones of the Tore-
arm on the Os Humeri.
The biceps, or ccraco-radialis, bends both bones of
the fore-arm, and turns the radius upon the ulna; per¬
forming both motions by its infertion in the radius alone.
It Kkewife moves the os humeri on the fore-arm, the
fcapula on the os humeri, and the os humeri on the fca¬
pula.
The brachiaeus ferves to bend the fore-arm on the os
humeri, by its infertion in the ulna, and by the con-
neftion of that bone with the radius. It ferves alfo to
move the os humeri on the fore-arm.
The anconarus maxhnus ferves to extend the fore-arm,
by bringing the ulna to a ftraight line with the os hu¬
meri. it ferves likewife to extend the os humeri on tlje
ulna, v/hen the laft named bone is fixed by fome exte¬
rior refiftance, as when, being laid upon the ground, we
rife by fupporting ourfelves on our hand. In this cafe
likewife, the fcapula muft be kept fteady by the coracq-
brachialis.
The two lateral anconaei co-operate with, and nflift
the anconseus maximus, in extending the fore-arm on
the os humeri, and the os humeri on the fore-arm.
The anconseus minimus may concur with the other
mufcles of that name, in extending the fore-arm on the
os humeri, and the os humeri on the fore-arm ; but its
affion does not reach to all the degrees of flection of thefe
bones; for when the fore-arm is very much bent, if we
t 3D examine
198 A N A T
examine carefully the fituation of this mufcle, we will
find it more difpofed to maintain thefe bones in that po-
fture, by co-operating with the brachialis, than to ex¬
tend them by affiiting the other ancontei.
Sect. VI. Muscles which move the
Radius upon the Ulna.
SUPINATOR LONGUS five MAJOR.
This is a long flat mufcle, lying on the external
condyle of the os humeri, and on the convex fide of the
radius frcm one end to the other.
It is fixed by flefliy fibres to the external inter-mufcu-
lar ligament, and to the crifta of the external condyle of
the os humeri, for five or fix fingers breadth above the
condyle, between the brachiseus and anconaeus externus.
From thence it runs along the whole convex fide of the
• radius, and is inferted by a flat narrow tendon, a little
above the ftyloid apophyfis in the angle between the
concave and flat fides of the extremity of this bone.
£
SUPINATOR BREVIS ftve MINOR.
This is a fmall thin flefliy mufcle, furrounding a great
portion of the upper third part of the radius.
It is fixed by one end to the lower part of the exter¬
nal condyle of the os humeri, to the external lateral li¬
gament of the joint, to the annular ligament of the radi¬
us, and to part of the lateral eminence in the head of the
ulna.
From thence it pafles obliquely over the head of the
radius, covering fome part of it; and running down up¬
on, and in fome meafure furrounding the neck, it turns
in under the bicipital tuberofity, and is inferted by the
fide of the interoffeous ligament in the infide of the fu-
perior quarter of the bone, and even a little lower.
PRONATOR TERES five OBLIQUUS.
This is a fmall mufcle, broader than it is thick, fitu-
ated on the upper part of the ulna oppofite to the fupina-
' tor brevis.
It is fixed to the internal condyle of the os humeri,
partly by flefliy fibres, and partly by a tendon common
to it with the ulnaris iaternus. From thence it pafles
obliquely before the extremity of the tendon of the bra-
chiseus, and reaches to the middle part of the convex
fide of the radius, where it becomes flat, and is inferted
below the fupinator brevis by an extremity almoft wholly
flelhy.
Pronator Quadratus five Transversus.
This is a fmall flefhy mufcle nearly as broad as it is
Jong, lying tranfverfely on the infide of the lower extre¬
mity of the fore-arm.
It is fixed by one fide or edge in the long eminence at
the lower part of the internal angle of the ulna, and by
O M Y. Part II.
the other in the broad concave fide of the lower extre¬
mity of the radius.
It has a ligamentary or tendinous frsenum belonging to
it, one end of which is fixed in the interofleous ligament,
the other in the inner edge of the bafis of the radius.
The Uses of the Mufcles ’which move the Radius on
the Ulna.
The fupinator longus aflifts in the motion of fupina-
tion, and is alfo a flexor of the fore-arm.
The fupinator brevis feems to have no other ufe than
what is expreffed by its name; and as it is a ihort fmall
mufcle, it mull be very weak.
The pronator teres can have no other adtion but that of
pronation, in the different fituations of the radius, whe¬
ther that bone be in a middle date between pronation
and fupination, or in the greatefi degree of fupination-;
and, in this cafe, though it is but a fmall weak mufcle,
it overcomes the fupinator longus.
The pronator quadratus is capable of no other motion
but pronation, and it adts with much more force than its
congener the pronator teres.
Sect. VII. The Muscles which move the
Carpus upon the Fore-arm.
ULNARIS.
This is a long mufcle, flefhy at its upper extremity,
and tendinous at the other, fituated on the outer pan
of the ulna.
It is fixed by its upper part in the backfide of the long
or internal condyle of the os humeri, in that part of the
olecranum which is next the condyle, along the upper
half of the ulna very nearly; and to the middle common
. tendon of the neighbouring mufcle, termed commonly
profundus.
It runs in the diredtion of the external angle of the
ulna, and ends by a long tendon, in the os pififorme or
orbiculare of the carpus, reaching likewife to the os un-
ciforme, being united to the ligament common to thefe
two bones.
RADIALIS INTERNUS.
This is a long mufcle very like the foregoing, but
fituated more obliquely.
Its flefliy portion is fixed, by a fhort tendon, to the
outer and upper fide of the inner condyle of the os hume¬
ri. From thence it paffes obliquely toward the radium ;
and running along about two thirds of that bone, it forms
a long tendon, which pafies under a particular annular li¬
gament, and under the infertion of the mufculus thenar.
This tendon is at length inferred chiefly in the infide
of the balls of the firft metacarpal bone, and often in the
fecond likewife, and a little in the firll phalanx of the
thumb, having firft palled through the channel of the os
trapezium, which fuftains the thumb.
ULNARIS.
Fart II.
A N A T
ULNARIS EXTERNUS.
This is a long mufcle lying on the outfide of the
fore-arm, fkfhy toward the os humeri, and tendinous to¬
ward the carpus.
It is fixed above to the external condyle of the os hu¬
meri, being there united to the anconseus minor, to the
annular ligament of the head of the radius, and to the
upper half qf the. external angle of the ulna. From
thence it advances, and forms a tendon, which palfes
through the external notch at the lower extremity of
this bone, on one fide of the Ityloid apophyfis.
The tendon, having afterward palled under a particu¬
lar ligament fituated near the os cuneiforme of the car¬
pus, is inferted in the outfide of the bafis of the fourth
metacarpal bone, fending fome tendinous filaments to the
bafis of the little finger.
Radialis Externus, Primus & Secundus.
These are two mufcles clofely united together, lying
along the external angle of the radius, between the os
humeri and the carpus, being flefhy near the former, and
tendinous near the latter.
The firfl: is inferted above, in the crifia of the exter¬
nal condyle of the os humeri, below the infertion of the
fupmatcr longus. The fecond is inferted in the fame
condyle below the infertion of the firfi; and in the
neighbouring articular ligament. From thence the two
flefhy bodies run down very clofe together ; and having
reached the middle of the outfide of the radius, each of
them terminates in a long tendon.
The two tendons accompany each other to the extre¬
mity of the radius; and, having pafled under a particu¬
lar annular ligament, they are divided as it were into
two cornua ; from whence the ancients, who looked up¬
on them as one mufcle, gave it the name of bicornis.
One of thefe tendons is inferted anteriorly in the bafis
of the firlt metacarpal bone, the other nearly in the fame
place of the fecond bone.
Ulnaris Gracilis, Palmaris Longus.
This is a fmall mufcle, lying between the os humeri
and the carpus,, on the infide of the fore-arm ; its body
being fmall and flender, its tendon very Jong and flat.
It is fixed by its fleihy portion, in the fmall crifia
of the inner condyle of the os humeri, fometimes clofe¬
ly united to the ulnaris internus. From thence it runs
down fleflry for Ibme fpace, turning a little obliquely
towards the middle of the fore-arm, and ends in a long,
narrow, thin tendon.
This tendon paffes, down the middle of the fore-arm,
over all the other ipufcles to which it flightly adheres, and
advancing over the large internal annular ©r tranfverfe liga¬
ment of the carpus, is inferted in the lurface thereof, fend¬
ing oiffome radiated filaments to the aponeurofis palmaris.
PALMARIS CUTANEUS.
This mufcle is a finall thin plane of flefliy fibres, fitu-
*ted tranfverfely, or more or kfs obliquely, under the
O M Y. IW
Ikin of the large eminence in the palm of the hand, be¬
tween the carpus and the little finger; its fibres adhering
to the fkin, and being in fome meafure interwoven with
the membrana adipofa.
Thefe fibres are fixed along the edge of the aponeuro¬
fis palmaris, from the large ligament of the carpus to¬
ward the little finger; and they run in for fome fpace on
the plane of the aponeurofis, but without any connexion
with the bones of the metacarpus. Near the aponeurofis,
thefe fibres are more or lefs tendinous, and fome of them
often crofs each other.
METACARPIUS.
This is a very fmall flefliy mufcle, fituated obliquely
between the large internal annular or tranlverfe ligament
of the carpus, and the whole infide of the fourth meta¬
carpal bone.
It is fixed by a fmall fliort tendon to the os orbiculare,
and to the neighbouring part of the large ligament of the
carpus. From thence its fibres run more or lefs oblique¬
ly toward the infide of the fourth metacarpal bone, in
the outer edge of which they are inferted. The fibres
of this mufcle are of unequal lengths, and extend all the
way to the articulation of the firlt phalanx of the little
finger with the fourth metacarpal bone,, but they have no
manner of relation to that linger.
Uses of the Mufcles ’which move the Carpus on'the
Fore-arm.
When the ulnarus internus ads alone, or as the prin¬
cipal mover, it brings the hand obliquely toward the in¬
ternal condyle, and toward the olecranum, though with,
difficulty.
When it ads together with the radialis internus, it
turns the hand equally towards the two extremities of
the bones of the fore-arm ; and thereby moves not only
the carpus in general on the fore-arm, but alfo the fe-
cond row of the carpus on the firll, and the metacarpal
bones on the fecond. „ r
When it ads with the ulnaris externus, it turns the:
outer edge of the hand toward the olecranum.
When the ulnarus externus adts with the ulnaris in¬
ternus, it turns the cuter edge of the hand toward the
olecranum, as already faid.
With the. radiales externi, it turns the back of the
hand toward the outer condyle.
When this mufcle afts alone, it brings the outer edge
of the hand obliquely toward the olecranum and the ex¬
ternal. condyle at the fame time. ,.t
With the radialis externus, the internus carries the in¬
ner edge of the hand, or that next the thumb, toward
the extremity of the radius, and toward the fold made
by the ulna and os humeri.
Alone, it moves that part of the hand which is next
the thumb obliquely, toward the internal angle of the
radius.
The radialis externus, together with the radi'alis in¬
ternus, turns the inner edge of the hand direfUy towa.d
the itylo:d apophyfia of the radius.
Wish:
2 00
ANATOMY. Part II.
With the ulnarls externns it inverts the hand, turn¬
ing the convex fide of the metacarpus toward the lower
extremity of the bones of the fore-arm. It likewife
moves the fecond row of the carpus on the firft.
This mufcle, ailing alone, draws obliquely, and to¬
ward the external angle of the radius, that portion of
the hand which anfwers to the fiffi: metacarpal bone, and
to the index.
The ulnaris gracilis, commonly called palmaris longus,
deems to be an afiiftant to the ulnaris and radialis interni
in bending the wrifi:; and it feems likewife particularly
to affifi the radialis internus in the motion of pronation.
The metacarpius ferves to turn the fourth bone of the
metacarpus toward the thumb, and at the fame time to
increafe the convexity of the back of the hand, which is
called making Dicgenet's cup. The fourth bone thus
moved carries the third along with it by reafon of their
connexion, which dill augments the hollow on one fide,
•and the convexity on the other.
Sect. VIII. The TAxjsz'L’zs which move the
Fingers.
FLEXOR POLLICIS LONGUS.
This is a long mufcle, fixed by fhort and oblique
flefiiy fibres to the infide of the upper part of the inter-
ofleous ligament, near the radius, arid along that bone
all the way down to the pronator quadratus. There it
terminates in a flat tendon.
This tendon having paffed under a particular ligament,
runs in between the two poruons of the thenar, and then
into a fort of groove left between the two fefamoide
bones fixed to the bafis of the fecond phalanx of the
thumb, on that fide which is turned to the palm of the
hand. Afterwards the tendon ends in the fiat fide of
the third phalanx, near its bafis. It is inclofed in a li¬
gamentary vagina, from the annular ligament to its in-
fertion, and it is divided or flit, fo that it appears to be
inferted by two extremities adhering together by their
edges.
EXTENSORES POLLICIS.
These are two very diftinlt mufcles, the firft or long-
eft of which is fometimes more, fometimes lefs, and
fometimes altogether divided into two, in which cafe
thefe mufcles are three in number. They are fituated
obliquely between the ulna and convex fide of the thumb.
The extenfor primus is a long mufcle, more or lefs
double, in the manner already faid. It is fixed above by
flelhy fibres, firft to the outfide of the ulna, near its up¬
per extremity, below the aocomeus minor and infertion
of the ulnaris externus; next, to the interofleous ligament
under the fupinator brevis; and, laftly, to the middle
part of the outfide of the radius.
From thence it runs down and pafles anteriorly over
the lower part of the radius, and tendons of the fupina¬
tor longus and radialip externus, and beings gradually, di¬
vided, it terminates in two long flat tendons, more or
lefs fubdivided, which pafs together under a particular
annular ligament, being only parted by fepta or fraena be¬
longing to that ligament.
The. firft of thefe two principal tendons is inferted in
the edge of the bafis of the firft: phalanx, near the large
tranlVerfe ligament of the carpus. When this tendon is
fubdivided, the other portion of it is fixed in that bone
of the carpus which fuftains the thumb. The other
principal tendon, which often belongs to a mufcle entire¬
ly diftinft from the former, is fixed in the convex fide of
the bafis of the fecor.d phalanx, where it joins the ten¬
don of the extenfor fecundus.
The extenfor fecundus is Ihorter than the firft. It Is
fixed to the ulna, below the former, and above the in-
fertion of the extenfor indicis proprius, and likewife to
the neighbouring part of the interofleous ligament. From
thence it runs down obliquely on the middle part of the
radius, where it has likewife a fmall adhefion. After¬
wards it pafles through the fmall channel in the ftyloid
apophyfis of the radius, through the annular ligament
belonging to the tendons of the radialis externus, and
over thefe tendons, being parted from them by a fmall 1|-
gamentary feptum. It is inferted in the convex part of
the third phalanx, near its bafis.
THENAR.
This is a very thick flefliy mufcle, in fome meafure
pyriform, lying on the firft phalanx of the thumb to¬
ward the palm of the hand, the large eminence in which
is chiefly formed by it.
It is fixed to the bone which fupports the thumb, and
to the neighbouring part of the great internal annular
ligament of the carpus. It is in fome mealure bicipital,
two diftindt portions anfwering to the two infertions a}-
ready mentioned. As it runs along the firft phalanx,
thefe two portions unite, and, diminifhing in thicknef?,
are both inferted by one tendon in the lateral internal
part of the head of the firft phalanx, in the lateral part
of the bafis of the fecond, and in the lateral ligament of
that joint.
MESOTHENAR.
This is a flat, and nearly triangular mufcle, lying be- ■
tween the firft phalanx of the thumb, and the bottom :
of the palm of the hand.
It is inferted, by a very broad bafis, in the ligament
which connects the os magnum of the carpus to tbit
which fupports the thumb. It is likewife inferted along
the internal or angular part of that bone of the metacar¬
pus, which fupports the middle finger, and in the fmall
extremity of that which anfwers to the index.
From thence the fibres contradting to an angle, termi¬
nate in a flat tendon of different breadths, which is in¬
ferted in that fide of the head of the firft phalanx of the
thumb which is turned to the hollow of the hand, and
in the neighbouring part of the bafis of the fecond pha¬
lanx, by means of the fecond fefamoid bone belonging
tliat joint.
Antithenar
Part II.
201
A N A T O M Y.
Antithenar five Semi-Interosseus Pollicis.
This is a fmall, fiat, flefliy mufde, fituated oblique¬
ly between the firft phalanx of the thumb, and fiift bone
of the metacarpus.
It is fixed by one end toward the bafis of the firft me¬
tacarpal bone, near the firft bone of the fecond row of
the carpus. From thence it runs obliquely toward the
head of the firft phalanx of the thumb, and is inferted
in the lateral external part of that bone, or on that fide
which is turned to the firft metacarpal bone. It croffes
over the femi-interofleus indicis, this mufcle lying toward
the back, of the hand, and the antithenar toward the
palm.
PERFORATUS vulgo SUBLIMIS.
. This is a mufcle of a confiderable volume, lying along
the infide of the fore-arm, flelhy for the greateft part
near the articulation of the fore-arm with the os humeri,
and near the carpus, terminating in four diftinA portions,
which become the fame number of long fmall tendons.
The name of fublimit has been given to it, becaufe it
lies almoft on the furface of the fore-arm; and that of
perforatus, from the flits found near th . extremities of
its tendons.
It is commonly made up of four mufcles, clofely uni¬
ted by their fldhy portions. It is fixed above to the fu-
perior internal parts -of the ulna and radius, and to that
of the interofleus ligament. A little below the middle
of the fore-arm, this large flefhy body is divided into
four diftind: mufcles, which, on the loweft quarter of
the fore-arm, end in four flat tendons of different fizes.
- Thefe four tendons are inclofed in a common membra¬
nous or mucilaginous vagina, which likewife furniflies
each tendon with a particular thin vagina. In this man¬
ner they advance to the carpus, and pafs under the large
annular tranfverfe ligament. Beyond this ligament, they
fpread again in the palm of the hand, ftill retaining their
particular vaginae, and run between the aponeurofis pal-
maris and metacarpus, toward the fingers, feparating
more and more by degrees.
Having reached the heads of the metacarpal bones,
they pais under the four arches or frtena formed by the
furcas of the aponeurofis palmaris, and particular fepta
of the great tranfverfe ligament of the palm of the hand ;
and then each tendon having got beyond the head of one
metacarpal bone, and beyond the bafis of the firft pha¬
lanx, enters the ligamentary vagina on the fiat or inner
fide of that phalanx, and is inferted in the flat fide of
the fecond .phalanx, near its bafis, the membranous va¬
gina accompanying it to its infertion.
In pafling along the infide of the firft phalanx, the
tendon is divided by a long flit, which gives paflage to a
tendon of the perforans; and from thence the names of
thefe two mufcles are taken.
PERFORANS vulgo PROFUNDUS.
This.mufcle is very like the former, and is fituated
much in the fame manner; only it lies lower, and is co-
. yon. 1. No. 9. 3
vered by the perforatus. It is compofed of four mufcles,
which at firft feem to make but one mafs, and afterwards
terminate in four tendons.
The flelhy portions of the firft and largeft, and alfo of
the fecond, are fixed in the fuperior parts of the ulna
and interoffeus ligament, down to their middle ; the flelhy
portion of the third is joined to the tendon of the uIiut
ris internus, by a fort of common aponeurofis ; and that
of the fourth is fixed along the ulna.
The four tendons have often feveral fmall collateral
tendons, fometimes five in number, united to the ten¬
dons of the neighbouring mufcle, as they pafs under the
large annular ligament of the carpus; but the tendons
themfelves are feparated from the others by thin fep'ta,
which form a kind of particular rings. Being thus
ftrengthened, they feparate ; and running along the palm
of the hand in diftindt membranous vaginae, like thole of
the perforatus, by which they are covered, they enter
the ligamentary vaginae of the firft phalanges together
with the former; and having palled through the fiflures
thereof, and through the ligamentary vaginae of the fe¬
cond phalanges, they are inierted in the fiat inner fide of
the third, near their balls.
EXTENSOR DIGITORUM COMMUNIS.
This is a compound mufcle, very much refembling
the perforatus and perforans, lying on the outfide of the
fore-arm, between the ulnaris externus and radialis ex¬
tern us.
It is fixed above, by a tendinous extremity, to the po-
fterior and lower part of the external or great condyle
of the. os humeri, and, by a tendinous adhefiun on each
fide, to the ulnaris and radialis externus. It has like¬
wife fometimes a fmall infertion in the radius. It is di¬
vided into four mufcles, like the perforatus and perfo¬
rans, and four long, llender, fmall tendons.
Three of thefe tendons pafs through the common ex¬
ternal annular ligament of the carpus; and the fourth,
which goes to the little finger, pafles through a particular
ring of the fame ligament.
Afterwards thefe four tendons feparate as they go to
the fingers, and in their paflage communicate with each
other, by oblique tendinous feries, chiefly near the heads
of the metacarpal bones.
Each tendon having reached the bafis of the firft pha¬
lanx, is flightly inferted therein by fome lateral expanfions
fixed in each fide of the bafis. From thence it advances
to the head of the fame phalanx, where it is divided in¬
to two flat portions, which, at the articulation of the
firft phalanx with the fecond, leave fome diftance be¬
tween them. About the head of the fecond phalanx,
they unite again, and are fixed in the convex fide of the
third phalanx, near its bafis.
EXTENSOR INDICIS PROPRIUS.
This is a fmall long mufcle, with a long flender ten¬
don, lying a little, obliquely on the lower and outer half
of the fore-arm, between the ulna and fore-finger.
. It is fixed, by its flelhy body, a little higher than the
•j- 3 E loweft
2 C 2
ANATOMY.
loweft third part of the outfide of the ulna, below the
infertion of the extenfor pollicis, and it has likewife a
fmall adhefion to the inttrolfeus ligament. From thence
it runs down, ending in a diftinft tendon, without any
communications, which having pafled through the annu¬
lar ligament of the extenfor communis, afterwards joins
that tendon which goes to the index.
EXTENSOR MINIMI DIGITI PROPRIl/S.
This is a kind of collateral or auxiliary mufeie of
the extenfor communis, of which it appears almoft al¬
ways to be more or lefs a portion.
It is fixed along the fuperior external half of the ul-.
na, from whence its long fmall tendon runs down in
company witli the fourth tendon of the extenfor commu¬
nis, all the way to the little finger, where it joins it, and
is inferted with it.
LUMBRICALES.
These are four very fmall flender mufcles, lying in
the hollow of the hand, in the fame direftion with the
perforatus and perforans.
They are fixed, by their flelhy bodies, to the tendons
of the perforatus on the fide next the thumb, near the
large annular ligament of the carpus. Near the heads
of the metacarpal bones, they become very thin tendons,
which accompany tbofe of the perforans through the fur-
cae of the aponeurofis palmaris. Then they pafs on to
the fame fides of the firfc phalanges, and join the ten¬
dons of the extenfor communis; each of them being
connected with the neareft portion thereof, at the articu¬
lation of the firlt phalanx with the fecond.
INTEROSSEI.
These are fmall mufcles, lying between the metacar¬
pal bones, and filling the three interftices left between
them, both exteriorly, or towards the back of the hand,
and interiorly, or toward the palm of the hand. From
this fituation they have the name of inttrcjfei, and have
been divided into external and internal. They are com¬
monly reckoned fix in number, three external, and three
internal.
The firfi: two external interoflei are for the molt part
inferted in the middle finger. They fill the interfiices
between the three firfi: metacarpal bones, and furround
the middle bone all the way to the hollow of the hand.
Their tendons are fixed in both fides of the firft phalanx,
and in both fides of the fecond tendon of the extenfor
cpmmunis.
The third external interofleus lies in the interfiice be¬
twixt the two laft metacarpal bones, and is moll com¬
monly inferted in the ring finger; its tendon being fixed
in that fide of the firft phalanx fartheft from the thumb,
and in the correfponding edge of the third tendon of the
extenfor communis. The fielhy body of this mufcle
runs in between the two bones toward the hollow of the
hand.
The internal interofiei are more Cmple than the former.
Part II.
and do not lie fo much between the bones. The tendon
of the firft is inferted in the fide of the firft phalanx of
the fore-finger, next the little finger, and in the corre¬
fponding edge of the extenfor communis. The tendon
of the fecond goes in the fame manner to the fide of the
ring-finger next to the thumb; and the third, to the
fame fide of the little finger.
There are therefore two external interoflei for the
middle finger, one for the ring finger, but none for the
fore and little finger. The middle finger has no internal
interofl'eus ; but the index, ring finger, and little finger,
have each of them one.
SEMI-INTEROSSEUS INDICIS.
This is a fmall, fliort, flat, flefhy mufcle, very like
the antithenar, or internal femi-interoffeus of the thumb.
It is fituated obliquely on one fide of that of the thumb,
between the firft phalanx thereof, and the firft metacar¬
pal bone.
It is fixed by one end to the outfide of the bafis of
the firft phalanx of the thumb, and a little to that bone
of the carpus by which this phalanx is fupported; and
by the other end it is fixed near the head of the firft
phalanx of the index, on that fide next the thumb.
HYPOTHENAR MINIMI DIGITI.
This is a fmall and pretty long mufcle, lying on the
backfide of the fourth metacaipal bone oppofite to the
thumb, where, together with the metacarpius, or hypo-
thenar metacarpi, it forms that large eminence over-a-
gainft the thenar or that of the thumb.
It is fixed by one end in the os orbiculare of the car¬
pus, and a little to the neighbouring part of the large an¬
nular ligament. The other end termiDates by a fhort
flattifh tendon, fixed to that fide of the bafis of the firft
phalanx of the little finger which is turned from the
thumb.
Uses of the Mufcles ’which move the Fingers.
The perforatus ferves to bend the fecond phalanges
of all the fingers except the thumb; and the particular
mufcles, of which it is made up, may aft feparately, by
reafon of their diftinft infertions in thefe phalanges.
They not only bend the fecond phalanges on the firft,
but alfo the firft on the metacarpal bones, and the meta¬
carpus and carpus on the fore-arm.
The perforans bends particularly the third phalanges
in which it is inferted; and by the fame motion it may
likewife bend the firft and fecond phalanges.
It may likewife be efteemed an afliftant to the ulnaris
and radialis interni in great efforts; and thefe mufcles
many reciprocally be looked upon as afliftants to the per¬
foratus and perforans.
The extenfor digitorum communis ferves to extend
the four fingers, to keep them in any degree of exten-
fion, and to moderate their flexion in all the determinate
degrees of sftion of the perforatus and perforans.
Each tendon ferves to extend a whole finger, that is,
all
Part It. A N A T
all the three phalanges together ; and like wife-each pha¬
lanx by itl'elf, though not with the fame facility.
The proper extenibrs of^he fore and little fingers are
afliftants to two fubaltern raufcles of the extenfor com¬
munis that go to thefe fingers, which confequently we
extend feparately with more eafe than either of the o-
ther two. Thefe mufcles likewife ferve to bring the
fingers, in which they are inferred, near the other fin-
gers.
. The flexor pollicis longus ferves chiefly to bend the
third phalanx of the thumb, in which it is inferred by
the extremity of its tendon. It likewife bends the fe-
cond phalanx, by virtue of the ligamentary vagina,
through which it pafles, as through an annular ligament.
The find extenfor of the thumb alone, when there are
three, a portion of the firil, when there are but two,
ferves to draw the firft phalanx from the palm of the
band, or to keep it at a diflance therefrom.
• The fecond of thefe mufcles when there are three, or
the fecond portion of the firfl: when there are but two,
ferves to extend" the fecond phalanx on the firft.
• The third when there are three, or the fecond when
there are but two, extends the third phalanx on the fe¬
cond.
When they aft all together, they affift each other by
the graduated infertions of their fmail fubakcrn tendons.
The thenar, by its infertion in the firft phalanx of the
thumb, ferves to draw it from the firft bone of the meta¬
carpus, more or lefs direftly, as one. of its portions afts
more than the other, or as they both aft equally.
By the infertion of the large portion in the bafis of
the fecond phalanx, by the intervention of the fefamoid
bone of the fame fide, it may bend this phalanx lateral-'
ly on the firft, and thereby bring the thumb to a great¬
er diftance from the index.
The mefothenar moves the firft phalanx of the thumb
towards the hollow of the hand, more or lefs obliquely,
as k afts either alone or with the large portion of the
thenar, or even with the antithenar. By its infertion
in the fefamoid bone of the fecond phalanx, it likewife
moves that phalanx on the firft, and thereby affifts the
flexor longus.
The antithenar moves the firft phalanx of the thumb
toward the firft bone of the metacarpus, and thereby
prefles the thumb laterally againlt the index. This mo¬
tion becomes more or lefs oblique by the co-operation of
the fnefothenar.
The hypothenar minor ferves to feparate the little fin¬
ger from the reft; which motion is commonly called ab-
duttion. It likewife keeps this finger feparated in all
fituations, that is, in all degrees of flexion or extenfion.
The interoffei may have two different ufes, according
to their different infertion, and the different fituations of
the fingers in whicli they are inferred.
In general, they affift the extenfor conmmunis by their
infertions in the lateral angles of the rhomboidal fiffures ;
for thereby they aft like lateral ropes, which, together
with the tendons of the extenfor, ferve to extend the
third phalanx of each finger.
By the fame lateral infertions they perform the lateral
motions of the fingers, that is, they prefs them all clofe
O M Y. 203
againft each other, but do not -feparate them all, nor
move each finger in particular toward, or from, tlm
thumb. In a general feparation of all the fingers, the
interoffei move only the middle and ring fingers ; the in¬
dex and little finger being fepaiated by other mufcles.
In the motions of the fingers toward the thumb, which
is termed adduttion, they aft only on three fingers, the
middle, ring, and little fingers. In the contrary mo¬
tion, or abduftion of the fingers, -they move likewife
three, viz. the index, middle, and ring fingers.
The ufes of the interpflei in particular, whether ex¬
ternal or internal, may be different in different fubjefts,
according to the variety of their infertions ; and there¬
fore in living bodies nothing can be determined about
them.
According to the fituation in which they have been de-
liribed, the firft and fecond external interoffei perform
alternately tire adduftion and abduftion of the middle fin¬
ger ; the third performs the abduftion of the ring-finger ;
that is, moves it toward the little finger.
The firft internal interofl’eus makes the abduftion of
the index, or moves it toward the middle finger; the fe-
conn makes the adduftion of the ring-finger, by moving
it likewife toward the middle finger; and the third per¬
forms the adduftion of the little finger, or moves it to-)
ward' the middle finger.
The ufe of the femi-interoffcus indicis is to move the
firft phalanx of the index, more or kfs direftly, toward
the great edge of the metacarpus, by removing it from
the middle finger. This motion is not a true adduftiot*
of the index toward the thumb.
1 The lumbricales. by the union of their tendons with
thofe of the interoflei, are coadjutors to thefe mufcles,
not only in the lateral motions of the four fingers,' but
alfo in bending and extending them. In the lateral mo¬
tions, they co-operate according to their fituation in each,
fubjeft; and it is poffible that the variety of their infer¬
tions anfwer to that of the interoflei, fo that the reci¬
procal co-operation continues ftill to be equal.
Sect. IX. The Muscles which move the
Os Femoris upon the Pelvis,
PSOAS ftve LUMB ARTS INTERNUS.
This is a long thick mufcle fituated in the abdomen,
on the lumbar region, adhering to the vertebra: of the
loins, from the peri!trior part of the os ilium to the an¬
terior part near the thigh.
It is fixed above to the laft vetebra of the back, and
to all thofe of the loins, that is, to the lateral parts of
the bodies of thefe vertebrae, and to the roots of their
tranfverfe apophyfes. The infertions in the bodies of
the vertebras are by a kind of digitations, and are very*
little tendinous. ■
From thence the mufcle runs down laterally over jrher
os ilium, on one fide of the iliac mufeie, and pafles un¬
der the ligamentum Fallopii, between the anterior inieri-
or fpine of the os ilium, and that eminence which fioraf
its fituation may be termed ilio-peftinea.
Before
204 A N A T O M Y. Part II.
Before it goes out of the abdomen, it unites -with the
i'liacus, and is foroetimes fixed, by a few flefhy fibres, in
the outfide of the eminence hft mentioned. It after¬
wards covers the fore-fide of the head of the os femoris,
and is inferted in the fore-part of the little trochanter by
an oblique tendon, which is folded double from behind
forward.
I L I A C U S.
This is a broad thick mufcle, lying on the whole in-
fide of the os ilium.
It is fixed by flefhy fibres to the internal labium of the
crifla oflis ilium, to that of the flope between the two
anterior fpines, to the infides of thefe fpines, to the fu-
perior half of the infide of this bone, and to the neigh¬
bouring lateral part of the os facrum.
All thefe fibres, contrafting by degrees, run obliquely
towards the lower part of the mufculus pfoas, uniting
therewith, and being fixed by a kind of aponeurofis to
the outfide of its tendon all the way to the little tro¬
chanter. They cover the head of the os femoris, and
fome of the lowed: are inferted in that bone a little above
and behind the little trochanter, and others a little lower
down.
The iliacus and pfoas, thus united, pafs under the li-
gamentum Fallopii, over the flope or channel, between
the anterior inferior fpine of the os ilium and eminentia
ilio-pedtinea, in a fort of ligamentary capfula very fmooth
and polifhed.
PECTINEUS.
This is a fmall, flat, and pretty long mufcle, broad
at the upper part, and narrow at the lower, fituated ob¬
liquely between the os pubis and upper part of the os fe¬
moris.
It is fixed above by flefhy fibres to all the {harp ridge
or crifta of the os pubis, and to a fmall part of the ob¬
long notch or depreflion on the forefide of that crifta,
in which the upper extremity of this mufcle is lodged.
From thence it runs down obliquely towards the little
trochanter, under and a little behind which, it is infert¬
ed obliquely by a flat tendon, between the fuperior in-
fertion of the vaftus internus, and inferior infertion of
the triceps fecundus, with which it is united.
GLUTEUS MAXIMUS.
This is a thick broad mufcle, lying on the outfide of
the os ilium and upper part of the os femoris.
It is fixed wholly flefhy to all the lateral pofterior
parts of the os coccygis and os facrum; to the ligamen-
tum facro-fciaticum; to the outfide of the tuberofity of
the os ilium; and from thence to the external labium
of the crifta of that bone all the way to its higheft part,
where this mufcle mixes fibres with the glutasus medius.
It is likewife fixed to the infide of the fafcia lata, at.
the places which anfwer to all the infertions already
mentioned, but through a much greater fpace, and by a
very great number of flefhy fibres, almoft in the fame
manner as we fhall fee in the external plane of the muf¬
culus temporalis. The fibres which end in this fafcia be¬
come gradually fhorter, as they are fituated lower.
All thefe fibres contraff in breadth in a radiated man¬
ner as they approach to the great trochanter, and after¬
wards form a ftrong, flat, pretty broad tendon, about
an inch in length, which is inferted a finger’s breadth or
a little more below the great trochanter, in all that
large longitudinal impreflion at the upper part of the li-
nea afpera on the back-fide of the os femoris, between
the vaftus externus and largeft portion of the triceps.
GLUTiEUS MEDIUS.
Th i s is a radiated mufcle, almoft in the fhape of a
fpread fan. It is pretty thick, and almoft as broad as
the whole outfide of the os ilium, being fituated between
the crifta of that bone and the great trochanter, and co¬
vered anteriorly by the fafcia lata, and pofteriorly by the
glutaeus maximus.
It is fixed above by flelhy fibres to all that fpace
on the outfide of the os ilium, which lies between the
external labium of the crifta, and the femicircular im¬
preflion which goes between the fuperior anterior Ipine,
and the great pofterior finus.
It is likewife fixed in the edge of that ligament which
goes between the lower part of the os facrum and os ili-'
um. Laftly, the inner part of it, which is covered only
by the fafcia lata, is inferted in the infide of that fafcia
in the fame manner as the glutaeus maximus.
From thence all the fibres contract in breadth, more
or lefs, in a radiated manner, as they advance toward
the great trochanter, and form a fliort thick tendon,
which mixes a little anteriorly with the tendon of the-
glutaeus minimus ; and the moft pofterior fibres gradual¬
ly join the fide of the tendon of the pyriformis.
The tendon is inferted in the upper convex part of
the great trochanter, from the apex of the large fuperior
external rough furface, all the way to the anterior:
rough (urface, encompalling in a manner all that part of
the trochanter.
GLUTaEUS MINIMUS.
This is a fmall, broad, radiated mufcle, fituated on'
the outfide of the os ilium, under the other two glutaei.
It is fixed above in all that portion of the outfide of
the os ilium, which lies between the great femicircular
line, and another fmall one, a little above the fupercili-
um of the cotyloid cavity or acetabulum, running be¬
tween the anterior inferior fpine and the great pofterior
finus. It is likewife fixed in the edge of that finus, in
the fpine of the ifehium, and in the orbicular ligament
of the joint of the hip.
From thence its fibres, contrafting in breadth, form a
fliort tendon, by which the mufcle is inferted in the an¬
terior part of. the upper edge of the great trochanter, a-
bove the great external convex rough furface in which "
the glutaeus medius is fixed.
TRICEPS
Fart 11. A N A T O M Y.
a fraail infeftion to the ligatneatum facro-fciatlcum and
TRICEPS PRIMUS. edge of the great finus of the cs ilium.
From thence it runs tranfverfely towards the joint of
This, with the two following tricipital mufcles, are the hip, its fibres contrading in breadth, and ends in a
flelhy and flat, and of different lengths, fituated between fmaU tendon, which is inferted in the middle of the inter-
the os pubis and the whole length of the os femoris.
The firft and fecond crofs each other in fuch a manner.
as that the mufcle, which is the firfl: On the os pubis,
becomes the fecond on the os femoris; and the fecond
on the os pubis, is the firft on the os femoris. The third
mufcle keeps its rank.
The triceps primus is fixed above by a fhort tendon
to the tuberofity or fpine of the os pubis, and to the
neighbouring part of the fymphyfis, its fibres mixing a
a little with thofe of the pedineus. From thence it runs
down, increafing in breadth, and is inferted by flefhy fi¬
bres interiorly in the middle portion of the linea femo¬
ris afpera.
At the lower part of this infertion, a portion of the
mufcle feparates from the reft, and fends off a long ten¬
don, which, together with a like tendon from the triceps
tertius, is inferted in the inner condyle of the extremity
of the os femoris.
TRICEPS SECUNDUS.
This mufcle is fixed above by flefhy fibres, below
the fuperior infertion of the triceps primus, in all the
outfide of the inferior ramus of the os pubis, as low as
the foramen ovale, but feldom fo low as the ramus of the
os ifchium.
From thence it runs down, and is inferted in the upper
part of the linea afpera, between the pedineus and tri¬
ceps primus, mixing a little with each of thefe mufcles.
TRICEPS TERTIUS.
This mufcle is fixed above by flelhy fibres to the an¬
terior part of all the Ihort ramus of the ifchium, and to
a fmall part of the tuberofity of that bone.
From thence it runs down, and is inferted by flelhy
fibres in the linea afpera, almoft from the little trochan¬
ter, down to the middle of the os femoris. It goes low¬
er down than the firft triceps, fending off a feparate por¬
tion like that of the mufcle laft mentioned.
Thefe two portions join together, and form a com¬
mon tendon, which, running down to the lower extremi¬
ty of the os femoris, is inferted in the back part of the
tuberofity of the inner condyle.
PYRIFORMIS Jive PYRAMID A LIS.
This is a fmall oblong mufcle, of the figure of a flat
pear or pyramid, from whence it has its name. It is
fituated. almoft traiiLerfely, between the os facrum and
ifchium, being covered and hid by the firft two glutaei.
It is fixed to the inferior lateral part of the os facrum,
by flelhy fibres, and to the neighbouring part of the an¬
terior or concave fide of that bone, by three digitations
lying between the anterior holes. It is likewife fixed by
Vol. I. No. 9. 3
nal labium of the upper edge of the great trochanter,
by two or three branches.
OBTURATOR INTERNUS.
This is a flat mufcle, almoft triangular, fituated in
the bottom of the pelvis. It covers the foramen ovale,
and almoft all the infide of the os pubis and ilchium.
It is fixed to the internal labium of all the anterior
half of the foramen ovale, a little to the neighbouring
part of the obturator ligament ; and alfo both above and
below the foramen. It is likewife fixed to the upper half
of the infide of the os ifchium from the upper oblique
notch in the foramen ovale, to the fuperior part of the
great pofterior frnus of the os ilium.
From all this extent the flefhy fibres, contra&ing in
breadth, run down below the fpine of the ifchium,
where they go out of the pelvis through the pofterior
notch of the ifchium, and afterwards unite in one large
flat tendon, which crofting over that of the pyriformis,
unites with it, having firft received on each iide foine
additional flelhy fibres from the two gemelli.
G E M E L L I.
These are to two fmall, flat, narrow mufcles, fitu¬
ated almoft tranfverfely one above the other, between
the tuberofity of the ifchium and the great trochanter,
immediately below the pyriformis, and parted by the
tendon of the obturator mternus.
The fuperior and fmalleft gemellus is fixed to the
lower part of the fpine of the ifchium, to the fuperior
part of the fmall ifchiatic notch, and to a rough line,
which runs crofs the outfide of the ifchium, beginning
from the fpine, and continued under the acetabulum,
where it is bent downward.
The inferior and largeft gemellus is fixed to the fu¬
perior and back part of the tuberofity of the ifehium,
and to a rough impreffion which runs crofs the outfide
of the ifchium from the lower extremity of the ifchiatic
notch, and is bent upward toward the other line, to¬
gether with which it forms a fort of irregular femi-
circle.
Both thefe mufcles have likewife a fmall infertion in
the infide of the ifchium, where, being united together
by a particular membrane, one of them joins the upper
fide, and the other the lower fide of the obturator intei"
nus, a little after it has palled over the notch: They
inciofe it as in a bag, and continue to be fixed to it by
flelhy fibres all the way to its extremity.
OBTURATOR EXTERNUS.
This is a fmall.flat mufcle, which fills up the fora¬
men ovale of the os innorei atum exteriorly, and reaches
f 5 -F from
206 ANA
from thence to the great trochanter of the os femoris,
behind the neck of that bone.
It is fixed by fleihy fibres to the outer anterior fide of
the os pubis, all the way to the foramen ovale, to the
edge of that hole, next the fmall ramus of the ifchium,
and a little to the neighbouring parts of the obturator
ligament.
From thence its fibres, contra&ing in breadth, pafs
on the forefide of the great ramus of the ifchium, under
the acetabulum, where a tendon is formed, which con¬
tinues its courfe behind the neck of the os feimoris to¬
ward the great trochanter, and is inferted between the
gemelli and quadrants, in a fmall foflula between the
apex of the great trochanter, and the bafis of the col-
lum femoris.
QU A D R A T U S.
This is a fmall, flat, flefliy mufcle, of the figure of
an oblong fquare, from whence it has it name. It is
'fituated tranfverfely between the tuberofity of the ifchium
and the great trochanter.
It is fixed by one extremity along that obtufe line
which runs from under the acetabulum, toward the lower
part of the tuberofity of the ifchium. From thence it
ruhs direftly toward the great trochanter, and is infert¬
ed in almoft all the lower half of the oblong eminence,in
that apophyfis ; but chiefly in the fmall rifing or tubero¬
fity in the middle of that eminence.
musculus fascia: lata:.
This is a fmall and pretty long, mufcle, fituated a
little obliquely upward and downward on the forepart of
the hip.
It is fixed above to the outfide of the anterior fuperior
fpine of the os ilium, between the infertions of the glu-
taeus medius and fartorius. From thence its fldhy fibres
run down a little obliquely backward, forming a very
flat body, four fingers breadth in length, and two in
breadth.
This body lies between two laminae of the fafeia lata,
and is inferted therein by fiiort tendinous fibres, which
difapjiear at that place where the fafeia adheres to the
great trochanter and tendon of the glutaeus maximus.
Uses of the fl/lnfclet ’which move the Os Femoris on
the Pelvis.
The glutteus maximus ferves chiefly, by its pofterior
portion, to extend the os femoris, and to draw it back¬
ward. By its anterior portion, it may co-operate with
the reft in performing the abduftion of the thigh; but
when we fit, it can do this office only by its pofterior
portion.
By its infertion in the os coccygis, it may on fome
occaiions bring it forward, and hinder it from being thruft
too far backward, as in the excretion of hardened faeces,
or in difficult births.
The glutaeus medius is commonly, but falfely, reckon¬
ed an extenfor of the thigh. Its ufe is to feparate one
T O M Y. Part II.
thigh from the other, when we ftand, and that more or
lefs diredfly according to the adtion of its anterior, po¬
fterior, or middle portions.
When we fit, the only ufe of this mufcle is to per¬
form the rotation of the os femoris about its axis, in
fuch a manner, that if the leg be bent at the fame time*
it (hall be feparated from the other.
The glutasus minimus has likewife been reckoned an
extenfor of the thigh, but without any foundation. It
aflifts the glutaeus medius in the abdu&ion of the thigh
when we ftand, and in the rotation when we fit.
The plbas bends the thigh on the pelvis, or brings it
forward. It may likewife move the pelvis on the thighs,
and hinder it from being carried along with the reft of
the trank, when the body is inclined backward while we
fit, having the lower extremities fixed by fome external
force. In this fituation it may likewife move the verte¬
bras of the loins.
The iliacus is a congener or afliftant to the pfoas, in
bringing the thigh forward and upward. It may likewife
move the pelvis in the fame manner with the former.
The pedtineus is an afliftant to the two former muf-
cles in moving both the thigh and the pelvis.. It may
likewife aflift in bringing the thigh inward, or toward
the other, whether it be extended or bent at the fame
The three triceps mufcles join in the fame ufe; that
is, to move the thigh inward, and bring the two thighs
near each other; as v/hen, in riding, we prefs the thighs
clofe againft the faddle; when, in fitting, we hold any
thing clofe between the knees; when we crofs the thighs;
or when, in (landing, we bring the legs clofe together, in
order to jump.
The ufe of thefe mufcles is likewife to hinder the
thighs from feparating more than is convenient, efpecial-
ly in great efforts and jerks.
The pyriformis, gemelli, and quadratus, called like¬
wife by the common name of quadrigemini, are conge-
neres in their ufes ; and thefe have been confined by ana-
tomifts to the rotation of the os femaris about its axis
from before outward, when we ftand or lie at full
length; likewife in fitting, or when the thigh is bent in
any other pofture, they carry the thigh outward, or fe-
parate the two thighs from each other when bent.
All the four co-operate in thefe two ufes of rotation
and abdu&ion ; but they co-operate equally or unequally,
according to the different degrees of the extenfion or
flexion of the thigh.
The obturator internus has nearly the fame ufes with
the quadrigemini, in making the rotation of the thigh
when extended,, and the abduftiqn when bent. _. 1
The obturator externus concurs with the internus in
the fame ufes, though in a more firaple manner, and in
a more uniform direftion. It ads chiefly when the thigh
is extended more or lefs.
The mufculus fafeise latae makes a rotation from be¬
fore inwards, that is, in a contrary diredion to that
made by the quadrigemini and obturator internus ; and
this rotation is not (o much confined as that of the qua¬
drigemini, becaufe it may have place whether the thigh
be bent or extended.
SecTx
Part II.
A
N
A
Sect. X. The Muscles which move the
Bones of the Leg on the Os Femoris.
Rectus Anterior Jtve Gracilis Anterior.
This mufcie is as long as the os femoris ; and lies di-
re<5tly along the forefide of the thigh, from whence it
has the name of rettus anterior.
It terminates above, by a pretty flrong tendon, which
is divided into two branches, one (hort and ftraiglit, the
other long and bent. The (hort branch, running up in
a ftraight line, is inferted in the anterior inferior Ipine of
the os ilium.
The long branch is infie&ed backward over the fuper-
ciljum of the acetabulum, and runs in the direftion there¬
of, from the fpine toward the great ifchiatic finus. It
is ftrong and flat, adhering very clofely to the bone, and
covered by the orbicular ligament and the glutteus mi¬
nimus.
.From thence the mufcie runs down wholly flefhy, and
partly penniform, fome of its fibres meeting above and
feparating below. It is narrow at'the upper extremity,
and grows gradually broader toward the middle. Af¬
terwards it contrabts again in the fame manner, and, at
the lower extremity of the os femoris, ends in a flat
broad tendon.
VASTUS EXTERNU S.
This is a very large flefhy mufcie, almofl as long as
the os femoris, broad at the extremities, and thick in
the middle, lying on the outfide of the thigh.
Its upper infertion, being fomething tendinous, is in
the pofterior or convex, rough furface of the great tro¬
chanter. It is likewife fixed by a flefhy infertion along the
outfide of the os femoris for above two thirds of its
length downward, in the correfponding part of the linea
afpera, and in the neighbouring portion of the fafcia lata.
From all this extent the flelhy fibres running down¬
ward, and a little obliquely forward toward the re&us
anterior, terminate infenfibly in a kind of fhort aponeuro-
fis,- which is fixed in all the neareft edge of the tendon
of the re&us, in the fide of the patella, in the edge of
the ligament of that bone, and in the neighbouring late¬
ral part of the head of the tibia.
VASTUS INTERNUS.
This mufcie is very like the former, and fituated in
the fame manner on the infide of the os femoris.
It is fixed above by a fhort flat tendon,, in the anterior
rough furface of the great trochanter, and by fltfhy fi¬
bres in that oblique line which terminates the bafis of
the collum femoris anteriorly, on the forefide of the in¬
fections of the pfoas and iliacus, in the whole infide of
the os femoris, and in the linea afpera on one fide of the
infertions of the three tricipites, almoft down to the in¬
ternal condyle.
1 From all this extent the fibres run downward, and a
little obliquely forward, and the body of the mufcie in-
T O M Y. 207
creafes in the fame manner as the vaftus internus. It
terminates below in an aponeurofis, which is fixed in the
edge of the tendon of the redtus anterior, in the fide of
the patella, and of its tendinous ligament, and in the
fide of the head or upper extremity of the tibia.
C R U R E U S.
This is a flefhy mafs, covering almofl; all the forefide
of the os femoris between the two vafti, which likewile
cover the edges of this mufcie on each fide.
It is fixed to the forefide of the os femoris, from the
anterior furface of the great trochanter down to the low-
elt quarter of the bone, by flefhy fibres which run down
fucceffively over each other, between the two vafti, and
are partly united to thefe two mufcles, fo as not to feem
to form a diftindt mufcle.
It is not fo thick as the two vafti; and as it is cover¬
ed by them on each fide, a fort of flefhy channel is form¬
ed by all the three, in which the redhis is lodged, co¬
vering the forepart of the crureus.
It terminates below in a tendinous aponeurofis, which
joins the backfide.of the tendon of the redtus anterior’,
and the neighbouring edges of the extremities of the two
vafti. Thus, thefe four mufcles form a common tendon,
which is inferted in the places already mentioned.
S A R T O R I U S.
This is the longeft mufcie of the human body. It
is flat, and about two fingers in breadth, fituated ob¬
liquely along the infide of the thigh.
It is fixed above by a very fhort tendon, in the lower
part of the anterior fuperior fpine of the os ilium, before
the mufculus fafeite latse. The beginning of its body
lies in the notch between the two anterior fpines of that
bone.
From thence it runs down obliquely over the vaftus in¬
ternus and other mufcles that lie near it, all the way to
the infide of the knee, where it terminates in a fmall ten¬
don, which grows broader near its extremity, and is in¬
ferted obliquely and a little tranfverfely in the forepart
of the infide of the head of the r.bia, near the fpine or
tuberofity of that bone,- immediately above the iufertioit
of the gracilis interior.
Gracilis Interior five Rectus Interior.
This is a long thin mufcie, lying in a ftraight line on
the infide of the thigh, between the os pubis and the
knee.
It is fixed in the edge of the inferior branch of the cs
pubis, near the fymphyfis, by a broad and very fhort
tendon, on one fide of the infertion of the triceps fectin-
dus, but a little lower down.
From thence the flefhy fibres contraAing a Tittle in
breadth, run down to the internal condyle of the Os fe.-
moris, where they terminate in a thin tendon, which af¬
terwards degenerates into a kind of aponeurofis, and is
inferted in the fore-part of the infide of the head of the
tibia.
EICE PS.
20& ANATOMY. Part II.
BICEPS.
Tun ninfcle is mads up of two portions, one long,
the other (hort, and they end in a common tendon.
Both portions are fleflty and confiderably thick, being fi-
tuated on the back and outfide of the thigh, between the
buttock and ham.
The great portion is fixed above, by a ftrong tendon,
in the pofterior and lower part of the tuberofity of the
ifehium, under the infertion of the inferior gemellus, and
clofe behind that of the femi-nervofus. From thence it
runs down toward the lower extremity of the thigh,
where it meets the other portion, and joins with it in
forming a common tendon.
The fmall portion is fixed, by fleihy fibres, to the
outfide of the linea afpera, below its middle, and to the
fafeia lata, where it forms a feptum between the triceps
and vaftus externus. From thence the fibres run down
a little way, and then meeting the great portion, a com¬
mon tendon is formed between them.
This ftrong tendon runs down to the outer and back-
part of the knee, and is inferred in the lateral ligament
of the joint, and in the head of the fibula, by two very
/hort tendinous branches.
S E M I - N E R V O S U S.
This is a long mufcle, half flefhy and half tendinous,
or like a nerve, from whence it has its name. It is fitu-
ated a little obliquely, on the poflerior and inner part of
the thigh.
It is fixed above to the pofterior part of the tuberofity
of the ifehium, immediately before, and a little more in-
ward than the biceps. It is afterwards fixed, by flefhy
fibres, to the tendon of the biceps, for about the breadth
of three fingers, much in the fame manner as the coraco-
brachialis is fixed to the biceps of the arm.
From thence it runs down fle/hy toward the lower part
.of the infide of the thigh, having a fort of tendinous in-
Xerfedtion in the inner part of its fle/hy portion. Having
reached below the middle of the thigh, it terminates in
a fmall, long, round tendon, which runs down to the
jnfide of the knee, behind that of the gracilis, where it
expands in breadth.
It is inferted in the infide of the upper part of the ti¬
bia, about two or three fingers breadth below the tube¬
rofity or fpine, immediately under the tendon of the gra¬
cilis internus, with which it communicates.
SEMI-MEMBRANOSUS.
This is a long thin mufcle, partly tendinous, from
whence it has its name, and fituated on the back-fide of
the thigh, a little towards the infide.
It is fixed above, by a broad tendon or long aponeu-
rofis, in the irregular, obtufe, prominent line which goes
from the acetabulum to the tuberefity of the ifehium, a
little above the infertion of the femi-nervofus, and be¬
tween thofe of the gemellus inferior and quadratus.
From thence it runs down flefhy in an oblique direfh'on
behind the inner condyle of the osfemoris, below which
it terminates in a thick tendon, which is inferted in the
pofterior and interior fide of the inner condyle of the ti¬
bia, by three fhort branches, the firft or uppermoft of
which goes a little toward the infide, the fecond more
backward, and the third lower down.
POPLITEUS.
This is a fmall mufcle, obliquely pyramidal, fituated
under the ham.
It is fixed above, by a ftrong narrow tendon, to the
outer edge of the inner condyle of the os fernoris, and
to the neighbouring pofterior ligament of the joint.
From thence it runs obliquely downward under the inner
condyle of the os femoris; it is a flat and pretty thick flefhy
body, increafing gradually in breadth, till it is fixed in the
back-fide of the head of the tibia, all the way to the
oblique line or impreflion obfervable on that fide.
Uses c/- Mufclet ’which move the Donee of the Leg
on the Os Femoris.
The two vafti and crureus ought to be looked upon
as a true triceps, the ufes of which, in relation to the
bones, are only to extend the tibia on the os femoris,
and the os femoris on the tibia. The extenfion of the
tibia on the os femoris happens chiefly when we fit or lie,
and that of the os femoris on the tibia when we ftand
or walk. All the three mufcles move the patella uni¬
formly in the direction of the os femoris, on the pulley
at the lower extremity of that bone.
The infertion of both the vafti immediately in the head
of the tibia, prevents the patella from being luxated la¬
terally on fome occafions, in w'hich the mufcles may aft
with more force on one fide than on the other, or re¬
main without aftion, in which cafe the patella is loofc
and floating.
The refills anterior, by its infertion in the patella, is a
congener to the laft three mufcles, and ferves to extend
the leg. By its infertion in the os ilium, it bends the
thigh, and affifts the p/bas, iliacus, and pefiineus, whe^
ther the leg be extended or bent. It likewife moves the
pelvis forward on the os femoris, and hinders it from
falling back when we fit.
The fartorius performs the rotation of the thigh
from before outward, whether extended or bent; being
an antagonift to the mufculus fafeias latse, and a congener
to the quadrigemini.
It likewife bends the thigh, or raifes it forward ; it
moves the pelvis forward on the femoris; and when the
pelvis refts on the two tuberofities of the ifehium in fir-
ting, it keeps it in that fituation.
Laftly, it bends the leg, whether it performs the ro-1
tation of the thigh at the fame time or not.
The gracilis internus bends the leg much in the fame
manner with the fartorius, which it aflifts in this func¬
tion, but not in that of turning the leg.
It may likewife affift the triceps in the addufiion of the
thigh, which it performs with much more facility than it
begins the flexion of the leg without the rotation of the
thigh.
The
Part a ANA T
The fcmi-nervofus bends the leg, and may likewiTe
bend the thigh on the leg. By its infertion in the tube-
rofity of the ifchium, it likewise extends the thigh on the
pelvis, and carries it backward; and may alfo extend
the pelvis on the thigh, when it has been inclined for¬
ward with the reft of the trunk; and confequently pre¬
vent its being carried too far along with the trunk, when
we ftoop forward, either (landing or fitting.
The femi-membranofus has the fame ufes with the fe-
mi-nervofus. It bends the leg on the thigh, and the
thigh on the leg; it extends the thigh on the pelvis, and
the pelvis on the thigh, and fuftains the pelvis when it is
inclined forward.
The two portions of the biceps bend the leg on the
thigh, and the thigh on the leg. The fuperior portion
likewife extends the thigh on the pelvis, and the pelvis
on the thigh. Thefe four ufes in general are common to
this mufcle with the femi-membranofus, and in fome mea-
fure with the femi-tendinofus.
The particular ufe of the biceps, and which feems to
belong more to the fhort portion than to the other, is to
perform the rotation of the leg when bent, by which
motion the toes are turned outward, and the heel inward.
The popliteus performs the rotation of the leg when
bent, in a diredtion contrary to that of the biceps. The
biceps turns the leg from-before outward; the popliteus
from before inward.
Sect. XI. The Muscles which move the
Tarfus on the Leg.
TIBIALIS AN TIC US.
This is a long mufcle, flelhy at the upper part, and
tendinous at the lower, fituated on the fore-fide of the
leg, between the tibia and the extenfor digitorum longus.
It is fixed above, by flefhy fibres, in the upper third
.part of the external labium of the crifta tibite, and of
the infide of the apo'neurofis tibialis, or of that ligamen¬
tary expanfion which goes between the crifta tibite and
the anterior angle of the fibula. It is likewife fixed ob¬
liquely in the upper two thirds of the outfide of the tibia,
- or that next the fibula.
From thence .it runs down and ends in a tendon, which
■ firfl: pafles through a ring of the common annular liga¬
ment, and then through another feparate ring fituated
lower down. Afterwards the tendon is fixed, partly in
the upper and inner part of the os cuboides, and partly
in the infide of the firll: bone of the metatarfus.
Peron/eus Medius vulgo Peron.?eus Anticus.
Th is is a long mufcle, fituated anterioily on the mid¬
dle part of the fibula.
It is fixed above, by fielhy fibres, to more than the
•middle third pa'rt of the anterior or purfide of the fibula,
and to the neighbouring part of the aponeurofis tibialis.
It is likewife fixed to a production from the infide of
that aponeurofis which runs to the upper part of the ti-
- Vol. I. No. 9.
o m y. 209
bia, and there ferves for a middle, feptam between this
mufcle and the extenfor digitorum longus.
From thence it runs down and forms a tendon, which
going in the direftion of the oblique line on the fibula,
paffes behind the external malleolus, and then through
an annular ligament common to it and to the peronseus
maximus, and is afterwards inferred in the tuberofity at
the bafis of the fifth metatarfal bone, fending off a fmall
tendon to the firfi: phalanx of the little toe.
PERONAsUS MINIMUS.
This is a fmall mufcle, commonly thought to be a
portion of the extenfor digitorum longus, though it is
eafily feparable from it.
It is fixed, by flefiiy fibres, in the lower half of the
infide of the fibula, between two oblique bony lines, on
one fide of the lower part of the extenfor digitorum lon¬
gus, to which mufcle it is (imply contiguous.
From thence it runs down contracting in breadth, and
paffes with the extenfor longus, through the common an¬
nular ligament, forming a flat tendon, which foon fepa-
rates from thofe of the extenfor, and is inferted near the
bafis of the fifth metatarfal bone.
GASTROCNEMII.
These are two thick, pretty broad, and oblong muf-
cles, fituated laterally with refped to each other, in the
fame plane, under the poples, and forming a great part
of what is called the calf of the leg. That which lies
next the tibia is called interims, and that next the fibu¬
la, extemus; and becaufe they form, as it were, the
belly of the leg, they have been termed in Greek ga-
.Jiroctiemii,
Each mufcle is fixed above, by a flat tendon, to the
pofterior part of the lower extremity of the os femoris,
behind the lateral tuberofity of each condyle, adhering
clofely to the pofterior ligaments of the joint of the knee.
From thence they run down, each forming a large an.d
pretty broad flefhy body, irregularly oval.
About the middle of the' leg, they end in a ftrong,
broad, common tendon, whic’h contra&s a little in breadth
as it defcends, and is inferted in the pofterior extremity
of the os calcis, together with the tendon of the foleus,
S O L E U S.
This is a large, (leftiy, flat mufcle, nearly of an oral
figure, and thicker in the middle than at the edges. It
is fituated on the back-fide of the leg, lower down than
the gaftrocnemii, by which it is covered; and thefe three
mufcles form the calf of the leg.
It is fixed above, partly to the tibia, and partly to the
fibula.
Afterwards leaving thefe two bones, it ends in abroad
firong tendon, which, together with that of the gaflroc-
nemii, forms what is called tendo Jchillis. This Prong
tendon contrails a little in its paffage to the os calcis, aijd
then expanding a little, it is inferted obliquely in the
. back:fide of that bone, all the way to. the tuberofity.
f 3 G TIBI-
210 A N A T
TIBIALIS GRACILIS vulgo PLANTARIS.
This is a fmall pyriform mufcle, fituated obliquely in
the ham below the external condyle of the os femoris,
between the popliteus and gaftrocnemius externus; and
its tendon, which is long, flat, and very fmall, runs
down on the fide of the gaftrocnemius internus, all the
way to the heel.
The flefliy body, which is only about two inches in
length, and one in breadth, is fixed, by a fhort flat ten¬
don, above the outer edge cff the exterior condyle of the
os femoris, on one fide of the gaftrocnemius externus.
From thence the fleftiy body runs obliquely over the edge
of the popliteus, and terminates in a very fmall, long,
flat tendon.
This tendon runs between the body of the gaftrocne¬
mius externus and foleus, all the way to the inner edge
of the upper part of the tendo Achillis ; and from thence
continuing its courfe downward, it joins this tendon, and
is inferred, together with it, in the outfide of the pofte-
rior part of the os calcis, without communicating with
the aponeurofis plantaris.
TIBIALIS POSTICUS.
This is a long, flelhy, penniform mufcle, broader a-
bove than below, fituated between the tibia and fibula,
on the back-fide of the leg, and covered by the extenfor
digitorum longus.
It is fixed above, by fleftiy fibres, immediately under
the articulation of the tibia and fibula, to the neareft
parts of thefe two bones, chiefly to the tibia, reaching
to the lateral parts of that bone, above the interofieous
ligament, which is here wanting.
From thence its infection is extended below the oblique
line or impreflion in the tibia, over all the neighbouring
part of the interofleous ligament, and through more than
the upper half of the internal angle of the fibula.
After this, it forms a tendon, which runs down behind
the inner malleolus, through a cartilaginous groove and
an annular ligament, and, palling under the malleolus, is in-
lerted in the tuberofity or lower part of the os fcaphoides.
Peron^us Maximus vulgo Peronjeus Posterior.
This is a long penniform mufcle, lying on the fibula.
It is fixed above to the anterior and outer part of the
head of the fibula, and to a fmall portion of the head of
the tibia; then to the outfide of the neck of the fibula,
to the upper half of the external angle of that bone, and
to the aponeurofis tibialis, which at that place makes a
feptum between this mufcle and the extenfor pollicis.
From thence turning a little backward, according to
the diredion of the bone, it forms a confiderable tendon,
which, running behind the external malleolus, pafles
through a kind of hollow groove, and through an annu¬
lar ligament common to it and to the tendon of the pero-
nteus medius, w'hich lies before it.
Afterwards running through the oblique groove in the
lower fide of the os cuboides, it is inferted in the fide of
O M Y. Part II.
the bafis of the firft metatarfal bone, and alfo a little in
the bafis of the os cuneiforme majus.
Sect. XII. The Muscles which move the
Metatarfus and Tees.
EXTENSOR POLLICIS LONGUS.
This is a thin fingle mufcle, lying between the tibialis
anticus and extenfor digitorum longus, by which it is al-
moft hid.
It is fixed to the in fide of the fibula, near the interof-
feous ligament, from the neck down to the loweft quar¬
ter of that bone; to the interofteous ligament through
the fame fpace, and a little to the lower extremity of the
tibia next the fibula.
There it ends in a confiderable tendon, which palling
through a diftind ring of the common annular ligament,
and then through a membranous vagina, is inferted in
the bafis of the firfl: phalanx of the great toe, and conti¬
nued from thence up to the fecond.
FLEXOR POLLICIS LONGUS.
This is a pretty long mufcle, fituated in the pofterior
and lower part of the leg.
It is fixed in the lower half of the back-fide of the
fibula, its infertion reaching almoft as far as the external
malleolus. The flelhy body advances on the infide of
that bone towards the tibia, according to the oblique di¬
redion of that fide, and ends in a large tendon.
This tendon pafles behind the lower extremity of the
tibia, toward the inner ankle, then through a fmall notch
in the inner and back-fide of the aftragalus, and through
an annular ligament or ligamentary vagina, continued un¬
der the lateral arch of the os calcis.
From thence it advances to the great toe, and palling
through the interftiCe between the two fefamoid bones, in
the ligamentary vagina of the firft: phalanx, is inferted in
the lower part of the fecond.
THENAR.
This mufcle is made up of feveral portions, and lies
on the inner edge of the foie of the foot.
It is fixed, by three or four flelhy fafciculi, to the
lower and inner part of -the os calcis, os fcaphoides, and
os cuneiforme majus. It is likewife fixed a little in the
annular ligament under the inner ankle, which belongs
to the tendon of the flexor longus.
From all thefe different infertions, the flelhy fafciculi
approach each other as they advance forward under the
firft: bone of the metatarfus, and are fixed, partly in the
internal fefamoid bone, and partly in the infide of the firft
phalanx, near its bafis.
ANTITHENAR.
This is a fmall compound mufcle, lying obliquely un¬
der the metatarfal bones.
It
2 I I
ANATOMY.
Part I!.
It is fixed pofteriorly in the lower parts of the fecond,
third, and fourth metatarfal bones, near their bafis; in
the ligament belonging to the fir(l and fecond of thefe
.bones; in the neighbouring ligaments belonging to the
bones of the tarfus ; and, laftly, in a lateral aponeurofis
.of the mufcle commonly called hypothenar.
All thefe portions, contracting into a fmall compafs, are
inferted in the outfide of the external fefamoid bone, and
of the firft phalanx of the great toe.
EXTENSOR DIGITORUM LONGUS.
Th i s is a long mufcle, flefhy in the upper part, and
tendinous in the lower, lying between the tibialis anticus
and peronteus maximus.
It is fixed above, by flefny fibres, in the outfide of the
head of the tibia, and infide of the head of the fibula;
in the upper part of the interofieous ligament, through
three fourths of the length of the fibula; and through
the fame fpace, in the tendinous feptum belonging to the
anterior angle of that bone.
It contracts in breadth a little above the annular liga¬
ment, and, in palling through it, is divided into three
tendons; the firft of which is afterwards divided into
tv/o. Thefe four tendons are inferted along the upper
or convex fide of the four fmall toes.
| EXTENSOR DIGITORUM BREVIS.
This is a fmall complex mufcle, lying obliquely on
the convex fide of the foot, being likewife termed pe¬
el teas.
It is fixed in the upper and outer fide of the anterior
apophyfis of the aftragalus, and in the neighbouring part
of the upper fide of that bone. From thence it runs
obliquely from without inwards, under the tendons of
the peronacus minimus and extenfor digitorum longus,
being divided into four flelhy portions, which terminate,
in the fame number of tendons.
1 he firft tendon is inferted in the upper or convex part
of the firft phalanx of the great toe. The other three
joining with thofe of the extenfor longus, are inferted a-
long the convex fides of all the phalanges of the three
following toes.
FLEXOR DIGITORUM BREVIS
five PERFORATUS PEDIS.
This is the undermoft of all the common mufcles of
the toes, being fituated immediately above the aponeuro-
fis plantaris.
It is fixed by ilelhy fibres to the anterior and. lower
part of the great tuberofity of the os calcis; and to the
neighbouring part of the upper fide of the aponeurofis
plantaris.
From thence it runs forward, being divided into four
flelhy portions, which terminate in the fame number of
tendons, fplit at their extremities, in the fame manner as
thofe of the fublimis or perforatus of the hand, and in¬
ferted in the fecond phalanges of the four fmall toes.
FLEXOR DIGITORUM LONGUS
five P E R F O R A N S PEDIS.
This is along mufcle, flelhy above, and tendinous
below, lying on the backfide of the leg between the tibia
and the flexor pollicis longus, covered by the foleus, and
covering the tibialis pofticus.
It is fixed above, by flelhy fibres, to a little more than
the middle third part of the backfide of the tibia near its
external angle, below the infertion of the foleus; and
alfo to a kind of ligament which runs down from the
middle of the tibia. It afterwards ends in a tendon
which pafles behind the inner ankle, on one fide, and a
little behind the tibialis pofticus, in a feparate annular li¬
gament.
From thence it runs under the foie of the foot, fend¬
ing off a detachment, by which it communicates with
the flexor pollicis longus. There it is divided into four
fmall flat tendons, which go to the third phalanges of
the four fmall toes in the fame manner, as the perforans
of the hand.
FLEXOR DIGITORUM ACCESSORIUS.
This is a flat and pretty long flelhy mafs, fituated
obliquely under the foie of the foot.
This mufcle is fixed pofteriorly by one flelhy portion,
in the lower fide of the os calcis, and in the anterior tu¬
berofity on that fide, and by the other in the neighbour¬
ing ligament whi.ch joins this bone to the aftragalus.
From thence the two portions run obliquely to the
middle of the foie of the foot, and there unite in a flat,
long, and irregularly fquare mufcular mafs, which is fix¬
ed to the outer edge of the fafciculus of tendons of the
flexor longus, to which it ferves as a fraenum at that
place.
L U M B R I C A L E S.
These are four fmall mufcles, fituated more or lefir
longitudinally under the foie of the foot.
They are fixed by their flelhy extremities to the four
tendons of the flexor digitorum longus near the infertion
of the flexor accefforius. The firft mufcle is fixed to
the. inlide of the firft tendon ; the fecond to the tendi¬
nous fork formed by the two firft tendons '; the third, to
the tendinous fork made by the fecond and third tendons •„
and the fourth,, in the fame manner to the third and
fourth tendons, but commonly moft to the third.
From thence thefe four mufcles run to the toes,. and
there terminate in the fame number of fmall tendons,
which are inferted in the firft phalanges of the toes, much ‘
after the fame manner as in the hand.
TRANSVERSAL IS DIGITORUM.
This is a, fmall mufcle, which lies tranfverfely under
the balls of the firft phalanges, and which at firft fight
appears to be a fimple mufcular body fixed by one end to
the great toe, and by the other to the little toe.
Vvl eo
•2'i-2 A N A T
When this mufcle is carefully examined, we find that
it is fixed, by a very Ihort common tendon, to the outfide
of the bafis of the fir ft: phalanx of the great toe, con¬
jointly with the antithenar; and, by three different por¬
tions or digitations, to die three interoifeous ligaments
which connect the heads of the four metatarfal bones
•next the great toe, laterally to each other.
INTEROSSEI.
These are feven fmall mufcles which fill up the four
interftices between the metatarfal bones, much after the
fame manner as in the hand. The four largeft are fu-
perior, the other three inferior.
ME.TATAR SIU S.
This is a flefhy mafs, lying under the foie of the
foot. It is fixed, by one end, in the fore-part of the
great tuberofity of the os calcis; and running forward
from thence, it terminates in a kind of fhort tendon,
which is fixed in the tuberofity and pofterior part of the
lower fide of the fifth bone of the metatarfus.
PA RATHE NAR MAJOR.
This is a pretty long mufcle, forming part of the
Outer edge of the foie of the foot.
It is fixed backwards by a fieihy body, to the outer part
of the lower fide of the os calcis, from the fmall pofteri¬
or external tuberofity, all the way to the anterior tubero¬
fity. There it joins the metatarfius, and at the bafis of the
fifth metatarfal bone feparates from it again, and forms
a tendon, which is inferred in the outfide of the firft pha¬
lanx of the little toe, near its bafis, and near the infer-
tion of the parathenar minor.
PARATHENAR MINOR.
This is a fleftiy mufcle, fixed along the pofterior
half of the outer and lower fide of the fifth bone of the
metatarfus. It terminates, under the head of that bone,
in a tendon which is inferred in the lower part of the
bafis of the firft phalanx of the little toe.
Uses of the Mufcles which move the Tarfus and the
other Bones of the Foot.
The tibialis anticus bends the foot, that is, turns the
point of the foot toward the leg ; which motion is per¬
formed by the ginglymoid articulation of the aftragalus
with the tibia and fibula.' It likeWrfe bends the leg on
the foot, or hinders its extenfion.
By its lateral infertion in the os cuneiforme maximum,
it moves this bone in particular over the anterior extre¬
mity of the os calcis; by which the foie of the foot is
turned inward toward the other.
The peronaeus medius bends the foot, and hinders the
leg from failing back in the fame manner as the tibialis
anticus. By its infertion in the tuberofity of the fifth
metatarfal bone, it-turns the foie of the foot outward at
O M Y. Part II. !
the fame time that it bends it, when it afls without the i
ailiftance of the tibialis anticus. j
The peronpeus minimus is an afliftant to the medius in
the flexion of the foot, in preferving the sequilibrium of j
the leg, and in turning the foie of the foot outward.
The gaftroenemii and foleus make a kind of triceps;
and, by their common tendon, extend the foot, and keep .
it extended againft the ilrongeft refiftance. It is by their
means that we raife the whole body, even with an addi- j
tional burden, when we ftand a tip-toes; and that we |
walk, run and jump.
The gaftrocnemii, by their infertion in the os femoris, !
may, in great efforts, move the leg on the thigh, and •
the thigh on the leg, as affiftants to the biceps, femi-
membranofus, femi-tendinofus, gracilis internus, and far- j
torius.
The foleus, by the multitude of its flelhy fibres and j
its penniform ftrutture, is more proper for ftrong than
large motions, and feems principally to fuftain the ga- ;
ftrocnemii in the motions begun by them. The tendi- 5
nous portions of this mufcle and of the gaftrocnemii, tho’ ?
they form a ftrong tendon all together, ipem neverthelefs j
to Aide a little upon each other in the different flexions
and extenfions of the foot.
Anatomifts are not agreed with regard to the ufe of ]
the tibialis gracilis.
When the tibialis pofticus ads alone, it extends the
foot obliquely inward. When it ads together with the
gaftrocnemii and foleus, it changes the ftreight diredion
of their motion to an oblique one. When it ads with
the tibialis anticus, the foie of the foot is turned more j
diredly inward, or toward the other foot.
When the peronaeus longus or maximus ads alone, it
may extend the foot hanging freely in the air ; but then j
this extenfion is obliquely outward. Together with the
gaftrocnemii and foleus, it likewife changes their diredion I
to an oblique extenfion outward.
The extenfor pollicis longus extends the two phalan¬
ges of the great toe ; and it may likewife be an aififtant j
to the tibialis anticus.
The flexor pollicis longus not only bends the fecond J
phalanx of the great toe, but may likewife ferve, in great
efforts, as an afliftant to the extenfors of the tarfus.
This mufcle is of great ufe in climbing up a deep place.
The thenar bends the firft phalanx of the great toe.
When the portion neareft the inner edge of the foot ei¬
ther ads alone, or ads more than the reft, the great toe
is feparated from the other toes, efpecially if it be at the j
fame time extended.
The antithenar, a'ding with the thenar, bends the firft
phalanx of the great toe. When it ads alone, efpeci¬
ally if the great toe is bent, it brings it nearer the o- !
ther toes, in proportion to the degrees of adion of its
different portions.
The two extenfores digitorum communes concur in ex¬
tending the four fmall toes ; and, as the extenfor longus
is not nearfo flefhy as that of the hand,, this difference is
made up by the extenfor brevis. The longus alone ;
feems to extend the firft phalanges; and they both join
in the extenfion of the fecond and third phalanges ; the
brevis, by the obliquity of its diredion, moderating the
Part II.
A N A T
aftion of the longus, which otherwife would have turned
the toes obliquely the contrary way.
The perforatus or flexor digitorum brevis, bends the
fecond phalanges; and the perforans or flexor longus,
the third; the ufe of thefe mufcles being nearly the fame
with thofe of the perforatus and perforans of the hand.
• The flexor acceflorius is an afliftant to the perforans,
increafmg its force on fome occafions. It likewife di-
reds the tendon of that mufcle ; for by contrading, at
the fame time that the flefhy belly of the perforans is in
adion, it makes the tendons go in a ftraighter line to the
toes than they would otherwife do, becaufe of their obli¬
quity.
The lumbricales have nearly the fame fundions in the
foot as in the hand ; and they are partly affifted, and
partly direded, by the flexor accefforius.
The interolfei of the foot have the fame ufes as in the
hand. The firft fuperior mufcle brings the fecond toe,
near the great toe; the other three bring the' fecond,
third, and fourth toes near the little toe. The three
inferior mufcles move the laft three toes toward the other
two.
The metatar fins moves the lall bone of the metatarfus,
much in the fame manner as the metacarpius does that
of the metacarpus.
The tranfverfalis may aflifl: the metatarfius in this
adion, which is fuppofed to be of ufe to tilers in climb¬
ing. The antithenar may likewife concur, and the pe-
ronasus minimus may ferve to counterbalance thefe muf¬
cles, and to bring the metatarfus back to its natural fi-
tuation.
The parathenar major ferves particularly to feparate
the little toe from the reft; and the parathenar minor
bends the firft phalanx of that toe.
Sect. XIII. The Muscles employed in
Refpiration.
DIAPHRAGM A.
This is a very broad and thin mufcle, fituated at
the bafis of the thorax, and ferving as a tranfverfe
partition to feparate that cavity from the abdomen.
For this reafon the Greeks termed it dinphragma ; and
and the feptum Iranfverfum It forms an oblique
inclined arch, the fore-part of which is higheft, and the
pofterior part loweft, making a very acute angle with
the back.
It is looked upon as a double and digaftric mufcle,
made up of two different portions, one large and fupe¬
rior, called the great mufcle of the diaphragm; the o-
ther fmall and inferior, appearing like an appendix to the
other, called the fmall or inferior mufcle of the dia¬
phragm.
The great or principal mufcle is flelhy in its circum¬
ference, and tendinous and aponeurotic in the middle,
which, for that reafon, is commonly called centrum
nervuum five tendinofum.
The flefhy circumference is radiated, the fibres of
which it is.made up being fixed by.one extremity to the
V**l. I. No. 9. 3
O M Y. 213
edge of the middle aponeurofis, and by the other to
all the balls of the cavity of the thorax, being inferred
by digitations in the lower parts of the appendix of the
fternum, of the loweft true ribs, of all the falfe ribs,
and in the neighbouring vertebrae.
We have therefore three kinds of infertions ; one fter-
nal; twelve coftal, fix on each fide ; and two vertebral,
one on each fide. Thefe laft are very fmall, and fome-
times fcarcely perceivable. The coftal infertions join
thofe of the tranfverfalis abdominis, but do not mix with
them, as they feem to do before the membrane which
covers them is removed.
The fibres inferred in the appendix enfiformis, run
from behind direftly forward, and form a fmall parallel
plane.
The firft coftal infertion runs a little obliquely to¬
wards the cartilage of the feventh true rib, a triangular
fpace being left between this and the fternal infertion, at
which the pleura and peritonaeum meet. The infertion
of thefe fibres is very broad, taking up about two thirds
of the cartilage of the feventh rib, and a fmall part of
the bone, from whence it reaches beyond the angle of
the cartilage.
The fecond infertion is into the whole cartilage of the
firft falfe rib; the third partly in the bone, and partly
in the cartilage of the fecond falfe rib; the fourth in
the bone, and fometimes a little in the cartilage of the
third falfe rib ; the fifth in the bone, and a little in the
cartilage of the fourth falfe rib, being broader than the
reft.
The fixth is in the cartilage of the laft falfe rib, and
almoft through the whole length of the bone. At the
head of this rib, it joins the vertebral infertion, which
runs from the lateral part of the laft vertebra of the
back, to the firft vertebra of the loins.
The fmall mufcle of the diaphragm is thicker than the
other, but of much lefs extent. It is fituated along
the forefide of the bodies of the laft vertebra of the
back and feveral of thofe of the loins, being turned a lit¬
tle to the left hand. It is of an oblong form, reprefent-
ing in fome meafure a flefhy collar, the two lateral por¬
tions of which crofs each other, and afterward become
tendinous toward the lower part.
The upper part of the body of this mufcle is fixed in
the flope of the middle aponeurofis of the great mufcle.
The outer edges of the alas or lateral portions join the
pofterior plane of the great mufcle, and thefe portions
adhere to the body of the laft vertebra of the back.
The extremities, called likewife pillars or crura, are
inferted by feveral tendinous digitations in the vertebras
of the loins.
The upper part of the flefhy body is formed by a par¬
ticular intertexture of fibres belonging to the two alae.
Thefe two alae, whereof that toward the right-hand is ge¬
nerally the moft confiderable, part from each other, and
form an oval hole, terminated on the lower part by
fibres, detatched from the infide of each ala, immediately
above the laft vertebra of the back. Thefe fibres de-
cuffate and crofs each other, and afterwards thofe that
come from each ala join that on the other fide, fo that
each of the crura is a produ&ion of both alse.
t 3 H
The
Part If.
214 ANA
The fibres that come from the left ala, crofs over
thofe from the right ala, and this again fends a fmall
fafciculus of fibres over thofe of the left ala; afterwaids
the two crura part from each other.
The right crus is larger and longer than the left, and
is always inferted in the four upper vertebrae of the loins,
and often in the fifth likewife, by the fame number of
digitations, which become more and more tendinous as
they defcend, and at length are expanded in for nr of an
aponeurofis. This crus lies more on the middle of the
bodies of the vertebras than oh the right fider
The left crus is fmaller and Ihbrter, and lies more on
the Tides of the vertebrae. It is fixed by digitations to
the three upper vertebrae of the loins, feldoUi reaching
lower. The lower part of it is expanded in the fame
manner as the other; and the two expanfions fometimes
meet together.
The oval opening of this inferior mufcle of the dia¬
phragm, gives paffage to the extremity of the cefopha-
gus, and the aorta lies in the iucerftice between the two
crura. Immediately above the opening or hole, a thin
fafciculus of fibres is fent off to the flomach.
In the middle aponeurofis of the great mu foie's, a little
to the right of the anterior part of the flope, near tha
imall mufcle,' is a round opening, which tranfmits the
trunk of the lower vena cava. The border or circpm-
ference.of this opening is very artfully formed by an ob¬
lique and fuccelnve intertexture of tendinous fibres, al-
nioft like the edge of a wicker bafket; and is, confequenr-
ly, incapable either of dilatation or contradtion, by the
adtion of the diaphragm.
We find therefore three confiderable openings in the
diaphragm; one round and tendinous, for the pafifage of
the vena cava; one oval and flefhy, for the extremity of
the cgfophagus ; and one forked, partly fleihy, and part¬
ly tendinous, for the aorta. The .round Opening is to
the right-hand, clofo to the upper part of the fight ala
of the fmall mufole ; the oval opening is a little to the
left; fo that the right ala, which is between thefe two
holes, lies almoft diredlly over againd the ihiddle of the
body of the eleventh vertebra of the back ; the tendi¬
nous fork is under the 6vai opening, but a little more
toward die middle.
S C A L E N I.
These are compound roufdes, irregularly triangular.
The foafenus primus is fixed to the upper part of the
outfide. of the fii ft rib, by two diftinft portions, called
commonly brancbts; one anterior, the other pofterior.
The anterior branch is fixed to the middle portion of
the rib, about an inch from the cartilage. From thence
it runs obliquely upward, and is inforted in the tranf-
verfe apophyfis of the fixth, fifth, and fometimes of the
third vertebra of the neck.
The poflerior branch is fixed more backward in the
firft rib, an interftice of about an inch being left be¬
tween it and the other branch, through which the axil¬
lary artery and brachial nerves are tranfmitted-. From
thence it runs up obliquely behind the former, and is in¬
forted ra all the tiaafverfo apophyfos of the neck.
TOM Y.
The fcalenns fecundus is fixed a Kttle more backward
in the external labium of the upper edge of the fecood
rib, fbrnetimes by two foparate portions, and fometimes
without any divifkm. The anterior portion is fixed im¬
mediately under the poflerior portion of the firft fcale-
nus, by a fliort flat tendon, united a little with the firft
iatercoftal mufole. From thence it runs up over the po¬
fterior portion of the fiift fcalenus, communicating like¬
wife with that mufcle, an'd is fixed by Lnferticms, partly
tendinous and partly fldliy, in the tranfverfe. apophyfes
of the four firft vertebne of the neck.
The pofterior portion is fixed in tire fecond rib, more
backward than the other. From thence it runs up, be¬
ing divided into ttvo portions, whereof one is inferted in
the tranfverfe apophyfes of the three firft vertebras of the
neck, behind the foalenus primus. The other poition
runs up behind the former, and is inforted in the tranf-
Verfe apophyfos of the two firft vertebras.
SERRATUS POSTICUS SUPERIOR.
This is a flat thin mufole, fuuated on the upper part-
of the back. It is fixed on one fide, by a broad a-
poneurofis, ta the lower part of the pofterier cervical
ligqment, and to the fpinal apophyfos of the two laft
vertebras of the neck, and two firft of the back.
From thence it runs down a little obliquely forward,
and is inforted, by broad flefhy digitations, in the pofte¬
rior part of the fecond, third, fourth, and fome tunes of
the fifth true ribs, neat their angles; but fometimes it
has no infortion in the focond rib.
SERRATUS POSTICUS INFERIOR.
This is a flat thin mufcle, lying on the lower part of
the back. It is fixed in the laft fpinal apophyfis of the
back, and in the three fiift of the loins, by a broad apo¬
neurofis. From thence it runs up a little obliquely, and
is fixed, by flefhy broad digitations, in the laft four falie
ribs. Its infertions, in the loweft rib, is-,.near the carti¬
lage, and,, in the other three, sear their angles.
INTERCOSTA L.ES.
The intercofta! mufctes are thin, fiefhy plants, lying
in the interftices between the ribs, tbcit fibres running
obliquely from one rib to another. In each interiticehe
two planes,' an. external and an internal, clofidy joined to¬
gether, nothing but a thm, line, cellular, membranous
web coming between them.
According to this natural divifion, there muft be for¬
ty-four intercoftal mufcles in the twenty-two interftices
left between, the twenty-four ribs ; and of thefe there
are eleven external, and eleven internal, on each fide.
The fibres of the external iniercoftals run down from
behind forward, and thofe of the internal intercoftals
from before backward ; fo that the fibres of thefe two
feries of mtifcles crofs each other.
The external intercoftals extend commonly from the
vertebras to the extremity of the upper labium of the
bony portion of each .rib, and. go no further.. The in-
teruift
Part II. A N A T
ternal begin foru'ard near rhe fternum, and »end back¬
ward at die angle of each rib.
SUPR A-COSTALES.
These mufcles are irregularly triangular, and fltuated
pn the back-part of the ribs, near the vertebra;.
Each of thefe mufcles is fixed, by one tendinous ex¬
tremity, in the tranfverfe apophyfis, which lies above the
articulation of each rib, and to the neighbouring liga¬
ment ; the firft being inferted in the tranfverfe apophyfis
of the lafi: vertebra of the.neck; and the lafr, in that of
the eleventh vertebra'of the back.
From thence the fldhy fibres run down obliquely, in-
creafing in breadth as they defeend, and are inferted in
the back part of the outlide of the following rib.
SUB-CO STALE S.
These are fleflty planes, of different breadths, and
very thin, fituated more or lefs obliquely on the infides
of the ribs, near the bony angles, and running in the
fame dtre&ion with the external intercoflals.
They are fixed by both extremities in the ribs; the
inferior extremity being always at a greater diftance from
the vertebras than the fuperior, and feverai ribs lying be¬
tween the two infertions.
St^rno-Costales Triangularis Sterni.
These are five pairs of flefiiy planes, difpofed more
or lefs obliquely op each fide the fiernum, and on the in-
lide of the cartilages of the fecond, third, fourth, fifth,
and iixth true ribs.
They are inferted, by one extremity, in the edges of
the infide of all the lower half of the fternum. From
thence the firft mufcle on each fide runs up obliquely, and
is fixed in the cartilage of the fecond rib. The fecond
runs lefs obliquely to its infertion in the cartilage of the
third rib. The reft are inferted, in the fame manner, in
the cartilages of the following ribs.
This iaft mufde is fixed, by one extremity, in the
cartilage of the fixth true rib, near the bone, and feems
to pafs the appendix enfiformis, immediately above the
infertion of the diaphragm in that .appendix, and to join
the mufcle on the other fide.
Uses of tbs Mufcles employed in Jlifpiration.
The fcaleni are fometimes ranked among tr.ofe which
ferve for refpiration; but they ought rather to be rank¬
ed among the mufcles which move the vertebra; of the
neck; becaufe the articulation of the firft rib on both
fides, with the firft vertebra of the back, feejns to ferve
only for the motion of that vertebra on the rib, and not
of the rib on the vertebra.
The ferrates pofticus fgperior is difpofed to move up¬
wards the three or four upper ribs next the firft.
The ferratus pofticus inferior is full better difpofed for
depreifing and keeping down the laft three or four falfe
ribs.
The pofterior fibres of the external imercaftals are
o M Y. 2 is
fixed, by their, upper extremities, fo near the articulation
of the ribs with the vertebrae, that they cannot deprefs
that rib in which they are fo inferted ; whereas the
infeitions of their lower extremities in the following
rib being at a .greater diftance from the articulation,
they may move that rib upward. And from thence ic
follows, that all the remaining part of each external in-
tercoftul which terminates at the bony extremity of each
rib, can only ferve to raife the low'er rib toward the
upper.
T he anterior fibres of the internal intercoftals are fo
near the articulation of the ribs with the fternum, that
they cannot deprefs that cartilage in which each of than
is inferted; whereas the inferior infertions of thefe fibres
being at a greater diftance from the articulation, they arc
in a condition to raife the cartilages in which they are fo
inferted. From whence it follows, that all the internal
intercofial muides have the fame ule with the external,
and that they can have no other.
The fupra-coftales ate powerful affiftants to the inter¬
coftals in their common adlion, and are therefore very
juftjy termed lev at'.res cofarum.
The fterno-ccftaks deprefs the cartilaginous portions,
apd anterior extremities of the ribs, especially the fupe¬
rior ribs, except the firft; and at the fame time draw
the cartilages of the inferior ribs near the fternum, by
rcafon of the curvature. They may therefore very well
be called deprefores cojlarum, as the fupra-coftales are
named levatores.
The fub-coftales having the fuperior extremities of
their fibres much more diftant from the vertebral articu¬
lation of the ribs than the lower extremities, it follows,
that they can more eafily move the upper than the lower
ribs, and confgqueritly that they are affiftants .to the
fterno-coftales.
The diaphragm, together with the intercoftal mufcles,
the ribs,, fternum, and vertebras of the back, forms the
cavity cf the thorax, and it divides this cavity from that
of the abdomen.
Its particular ufe is- to be the principal organ of refpi¬
ration, that is, of the alternate expanfion and contradHou
of the thorax. The other mufcles already mentioned
are to be confidered only as affiftants and direiftors, in
order to facilitate and regulate thefe motions, which, in
the ordinary ftate, are perpetual, but which may, by the
a<5lion of thefe other mufcles, be accelerated, retarded,
or even be fufpended for fome fpace of time.
The diaphragm may move when the ribs are at reft,
and confequently without the affiftance of the mufcles
which move the ribs; and this motion may be fufficient
to keep up-the alternate dilatation and contraction of tLq
thorax.
SEex. XIV. "The Muscles which move the*
Head on the Trunk.
S.TERNO-MASTOlD.TUSyfo? MASTCIDJEUS Anterior.
This is a long, narrow, pretty thick, and moftly
fiefny mufcle, fituated Obliquely between the back-par t
216
of the ear, and icnver part of the throat. It is in a
manner compofed of two mufcles, united at the upper part
through their whole breadth, and feparated at the lower.
It has two infertions below, both of them flat, and a
little tendinous. The firft is in the upper edge of the
fternum, near the articulation of the clavicula; the o-
ther in the clavicula, at a fmall diftance from the fternum.
The fternal portion pafles foremoft, and covers the
clavicular, both forming one body or belly, which run¬
ning in the fame oblique dire&ion to the apophyfis ma-
ftoidseus, is inferred in the upper and back-part of that
procefs ; over which it likewife fends off a very broad
aponeurofis, which covers the fplenius, and is inferted in
the os occipitis.
SPLENIUS five MASTOIMUS POSTERIOR.
This is aflat, broadv oblongmufcle, fituated oblique¬
ly, between the back-part of the ear, and the pofterior
and lower part of the neck. It is partly Angle, and
partly made up of two portions, one fuperior, the other
inferior.
The fuperior portion is fixed to the extremities of the
three or four loweft fpinal apophyfes of the neck, and of
the firft, or firft and fecond, of the back.
It is likewife fixed to the edge of the inter-fpinal li¬
gaments of the other vertebra:.
From thence it runs up obliquely toward the maftoid
apophyfis, partly under the upper extremity of the fter-
no-maftoidteus, and is inferted in the upper part of that
procefs, and along the neighbouring curve portion of the
tranfverfe ridge of the os occipitis.
The inferior portion of the fplenius is fixed to three
or four fpinal apophyfes of the back, beginning by the
fecond or third. From thence it runs up, being clofely
united to the other portion, till it reaches the fuperior
and lateral part of the neck, where it feparates from it,
and is inferted in the tranfverfe apophyfes of the three or
four fuperior vertebrse of the neck, by the fame number
of extremities, a little tendinous, which, however, are
fometimes only two in number.
COM PLEXUS.
This is a pretty long and broad mufcle, lying on the
pofterior lateral part of the neck, all the way to the oc¬
ciput. It is complicated, by reafon of the decuflations
6f its different portions ; from which it has its name.
It is fixed below, by fmall fhort tendons, to the tranf¬
verfe apophyfes of all the vertebrae of the neck, except
the firft, to which it is fixed only near the root of its
tranfverfe apophyfis. From thence it runs up obliquely
backward, croffing under the fplenius, and often commu¬
nicating with it, by fame fafciculi of fibres.
It is afterwards inferted above, by a broad flefliy plane,
in the pofterior part of the fuperior tranfverfe line of the
os occipitis, near the crifta orfpine of that bone.
Complexus Minor yJW Mastoidjeus Lateralis.
This is a long, flender, narrow indented mufcle, ly-
Part II.
ihg along all the fide of the neck, up to the ear, where
it increafes a little in breadth.
It is fixed, by one extremity, in all the tranfverfe a-
pophyfes of the neck, except the firft, by the fame num¬
ber of digitations or branches, moftly fleftiy, and difpofed
obliquely.
From thence it afcends, and having reached above the
tranfverfe apophyfis of the firft vertebra, it forms a fmall
broad plane, by which it is inferted in the pofterior part
of the apophyfis maftoidasus.
RECTUS MAJOR.
This is a fmall, flat, Ihort mufcle, broad at the up¬
per part, and narrow at the lower, fituated obliquely be¬
tween the occiput and fecond vertebra of the neck.
It is fixed below to one branch of the bifurcated fpine
of the fecond vertebra of the neck, at a tuberofity which
is often found at the upper part of that branch. From
thence it afcends a little obliquely outward, and is infert¬
ed in the pofterior part of the inferior tranfverfe line of
the os occipitis, at a fmall diftance from the crifta, being
a little covered by the obliquus fuperior.
RECTUS MINOR.
This mufcle is like the former, and it has alfo a fmall
infertion below, in the pofterior eminence of the firft ver¬
tebra. From thence it afcends laterally, and is inferted
immediately under the pofterior part of the inferior tranf¬
verfe line of the os occipitis, in a fuperficial foffula on
one fide of the crifta occipitalis.
OBLIQUUS SUPERIOR five MINOR.
This mufcle is fituated laterally between the occiput
and firft vertebra, being nearly of the fame figure with
the two retfti. It is fixed to the end of the tranfverfe
apophyfis of the firft vertebra; from whence it runs up¬
ward and very obliquely backward, and is inferted in the
tranfverfe line of the os occipitis, almoft at an equal di¬
ftance from the crifta and maftoid apophyfis, between the
retftus major and compleftus minor.
OBLIQUUS INFERIOR five MAJOR.
It is fituated in a contrary direftion to the obliquus fu¬
perior, between the firft and fecond vertebra of the neck,
refembling that mufcle in every thing but the fize. It is
fixed below to one ramus of the bifurcated fpinal apophyfis
of the fecond vertebra, near the infertion of the redtus'
major; from whence it runs obliquely upwards and out¬
ward, and is inferted in the end of the tranfverfe apo¬
phyfis of the firft vertebra, under the lower infertion of
the obliquus fuperior.
RECTUS ANTICUS LONGUS.
This mufcle is, in fome meafure, of a pyramidal fi¬
gure, lying along the anterior and lateral parts of the ver¬
tebra of the neck, all the way up the balls cranii.
ANATOMY.
Part n.
It is fixed to the interior parts of the tranfverfe apo-
phyfis of the third, fourth, fifth, and fixth vertebras in
a digitated manner. From thence it runs obliquely in¬
ward toward the lateral parts of the bodies of the verte¬
bra, pafles on the fore-fide of the firft and fecond, with¬
out being inferted in them; and, approaching gradually
towards the fame mufcle on the other fide, it is inferted
near it in the fore-part of the lower fide of the apophy-
fis bafilaris, or great apophyfis of the os occipitis.
RECTUS ANTICUS BREVIS.
Th i s is a fmall flat mufcle, about the breadth of one
finger, fituated laterally on the anterior part of the body
of the firft vertebra. It is fixed below to the bafis or
root of the tranfverfe apophyfis of that vertebra, near
the anterior eminence.
From thence it runs obliquely upward and inward to a
tranfverfe impreflion in the lower fide of the apophyfis ba¬
filaris of the occipital bone, immediately before the Con¬
dyle on the fame fide, being covered by the retftus anti-
cus longus.
TRANSVERSALIS ANTICUS PRIMUS.
This is a fmall, pretty thick, and wholly flefhy muf-
de, about the breadth of a finger, fituated between the
-bafis of the os occipitis and the tranfverfe apophyfis of
the firft vertebra. It is fixed by one end in the anterior
part of that apophyfis; and from thence running up a
little obliquely, it is inferted, by the other end, in a par¬
ticular impreflion, between the condyle of the os occipi¬
tis and the maftoid apophyfis of the fame fide, behind the
the apophyfis ftyloides, and under the edge of the jugu¬
lar foffula.
TRANSVERSALIS ANTICUS SECUNDUS.
Thi s is a fmall mufcle, fituated between the tranfverfe
apophyfes of the firft two vertebrse of the neck. It is
fixed, by one extremity, very near the middle of the fe¬
cond apophyfis, and, by the other, near the root or bafis
of the firft ; and therefore it is a mufcle of the neck, ra¬
ther than of the head.
MUSCULI ACCESSORII.
W e fometimes meet with a fmall mufcle, fixed, by
one end, to the extremity of the firft tranfverfe apophy¬
fis of the neck, near the infertions of the two obliqui,
from whence, running up obliquely, it is again inferted
behind the maftoid apophyfis. This mufcle is commonly
thought to be a third fmall tranfverfalis on that fide
where it is found, but it feems rather to be an additional
mufcle to the obliquus luperior.
Uses of the Mufcles Which move the Head on the
Trunk.
The aftion of the fterno-maftoidsti is different, accor¬
ding as either both mufcles, or only .one of them, acts,
Vol.-I. No. 10. 3
.217
and according to the different fituation of the heed and
trunk.
When we keep the head and trunk ftreight, whether
in Handing or fitting, both mufcles preferve the head in
that pofture again!! any force by which it would otherwife
be moved backward.
One of thefe mufcles adling alone, may have the fame
ufe, if the force to' pufii the head back be applied be¬
tween the anterior and lateral parts of it. ■
They both ferve likewife to perform the rdthfic/ns of
the head, that is, to make it turn to either fide as on a
pivot; and, fin this cafe, when we turn the head to one
fide, the fterno-maftoidjcus on tire other, fide affs, eand
not that on the fame fide.
They both ferve, in the next place, to bring the head
near the thorax when we lie on the back, or bend back¬
ward in fitting. In this cafe, the.fternum, being the
fixed point, muft remain immoveable; but as its conhec-
tion with the firft rib, and the inflexibility of the carti¬
lage of that rib, are not always fufticiertt for this, the
mufeuli refti of the abdomen muft lend their affiftance in
great efforts.
The two fplenii ferve to fupport the head in an ereff
pofture, whether in (landing or fitting; to moderate the
flexion of the head forward, and to bring it back agaiti
to its natural pofture.
They ferve alternately to co-operate with either of. the
fterno-maftoidsei, for the rotation of the head: Thus
when the right fterno-maftoidasus turns the head, the left
fplenius correfponds with it by its upper part; while’th'e
lower part at the fame time turns the vertebra; of the
neck.
The complexi are afliftants to the fplenii, to keep the
head ftreight in fitting or (landing, to hinder it froiff in¬
clining forward, and to raife it when inclined.
The redti majores, and minores pofj/ci, and obHqVd
fuperiores, turn the head a little backward on the firft
vertebra of the neck. The refti majores contribute moft
to this motion ; and the minores feem likewife to hinder
the articular membranes from being pinched between tl^e
bones in great motions.
The re&i majores and minores antici, and the two
tranfverfales antici, move the head forward on the firift
vertebra; and the re<fti minores, and tranfverfales breves,
likewife defend the capfular ligaments.
The obliqui inferiores or majores are true rotators of
the head, by turning the firft vertebra upon the odontoid
apophyfis of the fecond; all which alternate motions the
head follows, without being hindered in the motions for¬
ward and backward in any degree of rotation.
Of the tranfverfales antici, the firft only move the
head in the manner above mentioned; neither can they
perform any other motions, their infertions being confi¬
ned to the os occipitis and firft vertebra. The tranfvef-
fales antici fecundi have no (hare in the particular motions
of the head, but ought rather to be ranked among the
mufcles which move the vertebra of the neck.
The complexi minores belong to the head only by .their
fuperior portions ; the other portions belonging rather to
the neck. They may ferve alternately in the lateral mp
tions of the head, and thereby cq-operate with the, fple-
t 3 1 rius
A N A T O M Y.
2 j 8 A N A T
nius and flerno-mafloidseus of the fame fide, when thefe
two aft together; and they may likewife be of ufe to
preferve the capfular ligaments to which they adhere.
The finall acceflorii, when they are found, have the
fame ufes with the mufcks to which they are fupernu-
merary. ■
Se;ct. XV. Of the Vertebral Muscles.
LONGUS COLLI.
This vertebral mufcle is made up of feveral others,
fituated laterally along the fore-fide of all the vertebra;
of the neck, and fome of the upper vertebra of the
back.
It may be divided into two portions ; one fuperior,
confiding of oblique converging mufcles.; and one infe¬
rior, compofed of oblique diverging mufcles.
The fuperior portion is covered by the reftus anticus
longus of the head. The mufcles, of which it confifts,
are fixed below-to all the tranfverfe apophyfes that lie
between the firft vertebra and the laft. From thence
they run up obliquely, and are inferred in the anterior
eminence of the firll vertebra, and in the bodies of the
three following.
The inferior portion appears almoft (freight, and yet
all the njufcles that compofe it are diverging; or direfted
obliquely outward. They are fixed below to the anterior
lateral part of the body of the lalt vertebra of the neck,
and of the fird three of the back, and fometimes of
more. • From thence, they run upward, and a little ob¬
liquely outward, and are inferted near the tranfverfe a-
pophyfes of all the vertebra of the neck, except the fird
and lad.
TRANSVERSALIS COLLL MAJOR.
This is a long thin mufcle, placed along all the tranf¬
verfe apophyfes of the neck, and the four, five, or fix
upper apophyfes of the back, between the complexus
major and minor.
It is compofed of feveral fmall mufcular fafcicufi,
which run direftly from one or more tranfverfe apophy¬
fes, and are inferted fometimes in the apophyfis neared
to thefe, fbmetimes in others more remote, the feveral
fafciculi eroding each other between the infertions of the
two complex!, which are likewife eroded by them.
Transversalis GRAcins_/fne Collaterals Colli.
This is a long thin mufcle, refembling the tranfverfa-
lis major in every thing but (lie, and fituated on the fide
of that mufcle.
Semi-SpihalisiJwe Transverso-Spinal,is Colli.
Th i s name is given to all that flefiiy mafs which lies
between the tranfverfe and fpinal apophyfes, from the
fecond vertebra of the neck, to the middle of the back.
It is compofed of feveral oblique converging muf-
O M Y. Part II.
cles, which may be divided into external and internal.
The external are fixed below to the tranfverfe apo¬
phyfes of the fix, (even, eight, or nine upper vertebra
of the back, by tendinous extremities, which, as. they
afeend, become fldhy, and mix with each other. Their
fuperior infertions in the neck are fix in number, where¬
of the firft, which is tendinous, is in the feventh fpinal a-
pophyfis ; the reft, which are fldhy, are in the five next
fpinal.apophyfes.
The internal are (horter and more oblique than the ex¬
ternal, and partly covered by them. They are fixed,
by their lower extremities, to the trahfverfe apophyfes
of the three or four upper vertebra of the back, and to
the oblique apophyfes of the four or five lower vertebi'ae
of the neck; and, by their other extremities, they are
inferted in the fix fpinal apophyfes of the neck. j
.tc:.-:.' a. ■ > : ; -H? . .|
SPINALES COLLI MINORES.
These mufcles lie between the fix fpinal apophyfes of
the neck, and between the laft of. the neck and firft of
the back, being inferted in thefe apophyfes, by both ex^ j
tremities, on one fide of the pofterior cervical ligament, |
which parts them from thofe on the other fide.,
TRANSVERSALES COLLI MINORES.
These are very fmall fhort mufcles, found in the in-
terftices of feveral tranfverfe apophyfes in which they are •
inferted. They are likewife termed inter-tranfverfaies. |
SACRO-LUM BARIS.
This is a long complex mufcle, narrow and thin at
the upper part, broad and thick at the lower, rep refen t-
ing a kind of flat pyramid.^ It lies between the fpine
and pofterior part of all the ribs, end along the baak-
part of the regio lumbaris, all the way to the os facrum.
Through, all this fpace, 'it is clofely accompani d by
the longiflimus dorfi, which lies between it and the fpi¬
nal apophyfes of the vertebra, a narrow, fatty, or cel¬
lular line running between them.
It is fixed below, by a broad thin tendinous aponeu-
rofis, to the fuperior fpines of the os facrum, and to the
neighbouring lateral parts of that bone; and, laftly, to
the external labium of the pofterior part of the crifta of-
fis ilium, all the way to the great tuberofity.
From thence this mufcle runs upward, and a little la¬
terally, over all the regio lumbaris; the aponeurofis
fending off, from its infide, a mafs of flefhy fibres,
which are divided, from below upwards, into feveral
large fafciculi, infcrted in all the tranfverfe apophyfes of
the loins.
Afterwards it runs up obliquely over all the ribs,
fometimes as high as the two or three lowed vertebra of
the neck, fometimes higher, arid fometimes it ends at
the firft vertebra of the back,
L O N G I S S I M U S D O R S I.
This is a very complex, long, and narrow mufcle,
femething
Part II. A N A
fomething like the facro-lumbarfs, but more flefhy and
thicker, fiujated between the fpinal -apophyfes and the
tnufcle juft mentioned, from which it is divided by a
fmall, fatty, or cellular line ; but at the lower part they
are confounded together. It covers the femi-fpinalis, or
tranfverfo-fpinalis dorfi, and the femi-fpinalis luraborum.
Its upper -part lies between the facro-lumbaris and tranf-
verfalis colli.
Its inferior infections are partly by diftinft tendinous
portions, and by a broad aponeurofis commcn to it with
the facro-lumbaris; and partly by a large fafciculi of
flelhy fibres, which, at firft fight, feem to compofe one
uniform mafs. It is fixed, by the long, flat, tendinous
portions of different breadths, to the laft fpinal apophyfis
of the back, to all thofe of the loins, and to one or two
of the fuperior fpines of the os facrum. Thefe portions
lie at different diftances from each other, but are all con-
nefted by a thin aponeurofis fixed to their edges.
From thence they run up obliquely, diverging from
the apophyfes ; and, beginning to be flefliy at their inner
or anterior fides, they terminate above in fmall roundifh
tendons, inferted in the extremities of the feven upper
tranfverfe apophyfes of the back, and in the neighbour¬
ing ligaments of all the true ribs.
The other inferior infertion wholly flefliy, is partly in
the inner or forefide of the ‘poneuroiis of the facro-lum-
baris, and partly in the upper portion of the os facrum,
being from thence continued to the great tuberofity of
'the os illium.
• From thence this uniform mafs of flefhy fibres runs up
in a courfe almoft direft, croflihg the tendinous portions
which are more oblique ; and join the inferior fibres of
the facro-lumbaris by large fafciculi infected in the tranf¬
verfe and oblique apophyfes of the vertebra: of the loins.
The fibres of this portion go afterwards to the ribs, be¬
ing inferted by planes more or lefs flefliy, in the lower
convex edge of all the faife ribs, between the condyles
or tuberofities and the angles.
At the fixth or feventh vertebra of the'back, one or
more of the tendinous portions often communicate with
fome fafciculi of the femi-fpinalis, or tranfverfo-fpinalis
dorfi.
SPINALIS DO RSI MAJOR.
This is a pretty long and flender mufcle, lying up¬
on the lateral part of the extremities, of the fpinal apo¬
phyfis of the back.
It is compofed of feveral mufcular fafciculi of diffe¬
rent lengths, which, croffing each other, are inferted la¬
terally by fmall tendons in the fpinal apophyfes from the
fecond, third, or fourth vertebra of the back; and
fometimes, though feldom, from the laft of the neck, or
firft of the back, all the way to the firft or fecond verte¬
bra of die loins, with feveral irregular decufiations, which
•vary in different fubjects.
SPINALES DORS I M INGRES.
The is mufcles are of two kinds. Some go laterally
from the extremity of one fpinal agophyfs to another;
T O M Y. 219
being often mixed with the fliort fafciculi of the fpinalis
major. The reft lie direftly between the extremities of
two neighbouring fpinal apophyfes, being feparated from
their fellows on the other fide by the fpinal ligament.
They are fmaller and thinner than thofe of the neck,
and are properly enough termed inter fpinales.
TRANSVERSALES DORSI MINORES.
Some particular mufcles of this kind are found fixed
to the extremities of the three loweft tranfverfe apophy¬
fes of the back. The reft are all in fome meafure conti¬
nuations of the tranfverfalis major.
Semi-Spinalis five Transverso-SpInalis Dorsi.
This is a flefliy mafs, which, from all the fpinal and
tranfverfe apophyfes of the back and loins, is extended
into diftind fafciculi over the vertebrae themfelves.
It is made up, like that of the neck, of feveral oblique
converging vertebral mufcles, the uppermoft of which is
fixed below to the third tranfverfe apophyfis of the
back, and above to the firft fpinal apophyfis. The
loweft is fixed below to the third tranfverfe apophyfis of
the loins, and above to the laft fpinal apophyfis of the
back.
They may be divided into external,, which are firft
difcovered; and internal, which lie immediately on the
vertebrae. The external, from the firft vertebra to the
feventh, inclufively, appear to be longer than the inter¬
nal, which are covered by them.
Txansverso-Spinal is Lomeorum,
Sacer Veter ibus.
This mufcle is compofed of feveral oblique converging
or tranfverfo-fpinal mufcles, in the fame manner as in-
the back and neck; and it lies between the fpinal and
oblique apophyfes of the loins, reaching to the os fa¬
crum.
The loweft of thefe mufeks are fixed to the fuperior
lateral parts of the os facrum, to the ligamentum facro-
iliacum, and to the pofterior fuperior fpine of the os ili¬
um. The reft are fixed to the three loweft tr-anfverfe
apophyfes, and to the four loweft oblique apophyfes of
the loins, and to their lateral tuberofities. From thence
they run up to all the fpinal apophyfes of thefe vertebra,
the external, or thofe that appear firft, being longer than
the internal, which lie immediately on the vertebrae, e-
fpecially toward the lower part.
Spixales & Transversales Lumb-orum.
There are fome fafciculi which run up from the fu¬
perior falfe fpines of the os facrum, to the lower fpinal
apophyfes of the loins, which may be. looked upon as fb
many fpinales lumborum majores. There are likewife
fome fpinales minores between the fpinal apophyfes of
the loins, and tranfverfales minores between the tranf¬
verfe apophyfts, which are fometimes of, a confiderable.
breadth.
QuADRATirs-
220
M V.
Part II.
A N A T O
QuADRAVUS LuMBORtTM.y/lV LUMBAR1S ExTERNUS.
This is a fmali, oblong, flat mufcle, irregularly
fquare, narrower at its upper than at its lower part, ly¬
ing along- the Tides of the vertebrae lumborum, between
the laft falfe rib and the os ilium.
. It is fixed below to the external labium of almoft all
,the. pofterior half of the crifta offis ilium, tothehgamen-
tum facro-iiiacum, and a little to the os facrum, by a
flefliy plane, the fibres whereof run obliquely backward.
From thence it runs up between the facro-lumbaris and
pfoas, by both which it is partly hid, and is inferred in
the extremities of all the tranfverfe apophyfes of the
loins by oblique tendinous digitations. It is likewife fix¬
ed by a broad infertion in the twelfth rib, on the infide
of the ligament that lies between it and the lohgiffirnus
■dorfi, by which that rib is connected to the firft vertebra
of the loins.
MUSCULI OS SIS COCCYGIS.
These are fmali, thin, radiated mufcles, lying on
the inner or concave fide of the os facrum, and neigh¬
bouring.parts of the pelvis. They are four in number,
two on each fide, whereof one is placed more forward,
the other more backward; for which reafon the firlt
may be termed coccygams anterior, five ifchio-coccygaus \
. the other coccygaus pojierior, five facro-coccygams.
The coccygseus anterior is fixed by a broad infertion
in the anterior portion of the fmali tranfverfe ligament,
at the upper part of the foramen ovale of the os innomi-
nawm, which is - no, more than a particular fold of,the
great tranfverfe ligament of the pelvis. From thence it
runs between this great ligament and the mufculus obtu¬
rator internus, and, contra&ing in breadth, it is infeted
in the lower part of the os coccygis.
The coccygseus pofterior, or facro-coccygseus, is fix¬
ed to the inner or concave edge of the two firlt vertebra;
of the os facrum, to the inner and lower edge of the li-
gameritum facro-fciaticunv and to the fpine of the os if-
chium. From thence, contracting in breadth, it is in-
ferted in the infide of the os coccygis above the former
niufcle.
PSOAS PARVUS.
This is a long flender mufcle, lying upon the pfoas
major.
It is fixed above by a Ihort tendon, fometimes to the
laft tranfverfe apophyfis of the back, or higher; fometimes
to the fir ft of the loins, and fometimes to both. From
thence it runs down wholly flelhy, and more or lefs com¬
plex, on the great pfoas, in a direction a little oblique.
Having reached the middle of the regio-lumbaris, or
thereabouts, it forms a flender flat tendon, which gra¬
dually hncrealing in breadth, like a thin aponeurofis, runs
over the pfoas major and iliacus internus, at their union,
and from thence down to the fymphyfis of the os pubis
and os ilium, and is inferted chidly in the crifta of the
os pubis, above the infertion of the peCtineus, fometimes
fending an aponeurotic lamina further down.
Uses cf the Mufcles 'which move the Vertebra;.
The fcaleni, when they aCl: on each fide at the fame
time, may affift in bringing the neck forward, when we
lean back in any refpeCt. When thofe of one fide a6t
by themfelves, they make a lateral inflection, either of all
the vertebrae of the neck together, as in bending the
middle of the neck; or of fome only, as in bending the
lower part of the neck alone.
The longi colli bring the neck forward by the lower
part of their inferior portions. When one of them aCls
alone, or aCts more than the other, this motion is more
or lefs oblique.
By the upper and greateft part of the loweft portion,
they counterbalance the pofterior mufcles of thefe verte-
bra, and hinder the neck from bending backward by the
contraction of the fterno-maftoidaEi, when, lying on the
back, we raife the head.
The tranfverfalis major, tranfverfalis gracilis, and the
little tranfverfales, aCting on one fide, can have no other
ufe but to bend the neck laterally, and to binder thefe
inflexions when they aft on both fides.
The femi-fpinales or tranfverfo-fpinales of both fides
aCHng together, extend the neck upon the trunk, to keep
it from inclining forward in'ftanding or fitting, and bend
it backward. The femi-fpinales of one fide aCting alone,
produce the fame motions in an oblique direction; and
in that cafe they are aflifted by the inferior or vertebral
portion of the neighbouring fplenius, under which they
crofs.
The femi-fpinales of both fides may likewife ferve for
the rotation of the neck, but then the inferior fplenius of
the oppofite fide muft afiift them.
The inter-fpinales are affiftants to the femi-fpinales in
their mutual action, and may likewife ferve to bring back
the neck to its natural fituation, after fmall motions of
rotation.
The vertebrae of the back are moved by being bent
forward, by being extended or ftraightened, and by being
infleCted direCtly or obliquely toward each fide. The
motion of rotation has no place here, becaufe of the par¬
ticular ftruCture of the joints of thefe vertebrae, and their
connexion with the ribs, which likewife hinder the flexion
backward. Flexion and extenfion are the two principal
motions, and much more apparent than the others.
The flexion of the back forward is not performed by
any particular mufcles, but depends, both in ftanding
and fitting, on the relaxation of the mufcles that extend
or ftraighten it, and keep it in that ereCt pofture.
The two facro-lumbares maintain the back and the
regio-lumbaris in their natural fituation when we ftand
or fit; and by the relaxation of their fibres more or lefs,
the trunk is proportionably bent forward by the weight
of the head and breaft. They likewife. extend the back
and loins in all poftures, keep.them fteady and fixed un¬
der the weight of burdens, and bend the loins backward.
The longilfimus doffi is an affiftanttothe facro-lumba¬
ris, efpecially to the vertebral portion of that mufcle,
which it helps very- powerfully, both by the multiplicity
and infertion of its. fibres, in fuftaining -the vertebra of
Part n, A N A T
the back and loins while extended, whether in fitting or
{landing, and in preventing their finking under the
weight of the body, or of any additional burden. It
affifts in performing and in counterbalancing all the mo¬
tions and inflexions of which thefe vertebne, efpecially
thofe of the loins, are capable in ail pollutes of the
body.
All the fpinales and tranfverfales of the back and loins
belonging to theclafs of the vertebrales redti, the fpina¬
les to the middle mufcles, and the tranfverfales to the la¬
teral, their chief ufes- mull be to affift, moderate, and
maintain the motions of extenfion and lateral inflexion,
whether fimple and dire<fl, or oblique and compound.
The femi-fpinales, or tranfverfo-fpinales, being ob¬
lique, converging, vertebral mufcles, are afliftants to
the facro-lumbaris and longiflimus dorfi, which they crofs
on each fide.
The quadratus lumborum and pfoas parvus are of the
fame ufe to the vertebrae of the loins, as the fcaleni to
thofe of the neck. When both quadrati aft, they keep
the lumbar pillar ftraight, that is, fo as not to incline to
either fide, and then they may allift the refti of the ab¬
domen in the inflexions forward, and the fuperior por¬
tions of the obliqui in lateral inflexions.
They may likewife ferve to fupport the haunches al¬
ternately in walking; and, in {landing on one foot, the
quadratus of the oppofite fide may fupport the haunch
of that fide.
The pfoas parvus, ferves to fuftain the pelvis much in
the fame manner with the mufculi refti of the abdomen,
in climbing, &c.
The coccygaeus anterior may fuftain the coccyx in
aequilibrio, and hinder it from being bent backward,
and from being luxated in great ftrains, as in the excre¬
tion of hardened faeces, &c.
' The coccygseus pofterior can only ferve to replace the
os coccygis when it has been forced backward, and to
hinder it from being luxated backward.
'Sect. XVI. The Muscles which move the
Lower Jaw.
M A S S E T E R.
This is a very thick flelhy tnufcle, fttuated at the
back part of the cheek. It feems to be made up of three
portions, like a triceps, viz. one large and external por¬
tion, one middle, and one fmall and internal.
The external portion is fixed by one tendinous extre¬
mity to all the inferior edge of the os make, and a little
to the neighbouring parts of the os maxillare and apo-
phyfis zygomatica of the os temporum. From thence it
runs down obliquely backward, being wholly fleftiy, and
is inferred by the other extremity in the rough impreffion
on the outfide of the angle of the lower jaw.
The middle portion is fixed by one end to the lower
edge of the whole apophyfis zygomatica of the os tem¬
porum, and a very little to that of the os make. From
theilce it runs down a little obliquely forward in an op¬
pofite direftion to the firft portion, under which it crof-
Vol. I. No. io. 3
O M Y. 22 1
fes, and is inferred by its other extremity in the middle
of the infide of the ramus of the lower jaw, near the in-,
fertion of the external portion with which it mixes.
The third portion, which is leaft and rhoft internal,
is fixed by one extremity to the inner labium of the low¬
er edge, and aifo to the infide of almoftall the zygoma¬
tic arch; and by the other, to the root or bafis of the
coronoid apophyfis, where it mixes wholly fleftiy with
the infertroa of the middle portion.
TEMPORALIS.
This is abroad flat mufcle, refembling the quadrant of
a circle in figure. It occupies all the femi-circular or fe-
mi-oval plane of the lateral region of the cranium, the
temporal foffa, and part of the zygomatic foffa, Frem
this fituation it has its name.
To conceive juftly the infertions of this mufcle, it
muft be obferved, that the pericranium is divided into
two laminae. The internal lamina, fometimes taken for
a particular periofteum, covers immediately all the bony
parts of this region. The external lamina feparated
from the other, is fpread out like an aponeurotic or li¬
gamentary tent, by means of its adhefions to the ex¬
ternal angular apophyfis of the os frontis, to the pofte¬
rior edge of the fuperior apophyfis of the os mals, and
to the upper edge of all the zygomatic arch, all the way
to the root of the maftoid apophyfis.
This mufcle is compofed of two planes of fle/hy fibres,
fixed to the two fides of a tendinous plane nearly of the
fame breadth with them, like a concealed middle tendon;
as may be plainly feen by dividing the mufcle all the way
to the bone, according to the d\reftion of its fibres.
The body of the mufcle thus formed is inclofed between
the two aponeurotic or ligamentary lamina; in the follow¬
ing manner.
The internal flefhy plane is fixed, by a broad radia¬
ted infertion, to all the femi-circular plane of the cra¬
nium, by the intervention of the internal lamina of the
periofteum.
Thus it is fixed to the lateral external part of the cs
frontis, and to its external angular apophyfis, to the low¬
er part of the os parietale, to the iquamous portion of
riie os temporis, to the great ala or temporal apophyfis
of the fphenoidal bone, by which the temporal fofla is
formed; and a little to the backfide of the internal orbi¬
tary apophyfis of the os malar, which forms part of the
zygomatic foffa,
PTERYGOIDyEUS MAJOR five INTERNUS,
This mufcle lies on the infide of. the lower jaw, al-
moft in the fame manner as the maffeter does on the out¬
fide, being of the fame figure with that mufcle, only
fmaller and narrower.
It is fixed above in the pterygoid cavity, chiefly to
tire infide of the external ala of the apophyfis ptery-
goides.
It runs down obliquely toward the angle of the lower
jaw, and is infected a little tendinous in the ineoualN
t ' 3 K ^ ties
itt A N A T
ties on the infide thereof, oppcfite to the inferticn of the
maiEeter.
.PTERYGOIDiEUS MINOR Jive pXTERNUS.
This is an oblong flefhy mufcle, much fmaller than
the other,, and fituated aimed horizontally between the
vutfide of the apophyfls pttrygoides, and the condyloid
apophylis oPthe lower jaw, the fubje-R being confidered
in an ere(5l podure.
k is fixed by one extremity to the outfide and edge of
the cuter ala of the pterygoid apophyfs, hllihg the fof
fula which is at theba'is of this apophyfis, near the bads
'©f the temporal apophyfiSj of the fphenoidal boiie.
From thence it runs backward, and a little outward,
into the void fpace between the two apephyfes of the low¬
er jaw, .and is inferted anteriorly in the condyloid apo¬
phyfis, at a fmall fcfiula immediately under the inner
tingle of the condyle. It is alfo fixed to the capfular li¬
gament of the joint.
DIGASTRICUS.
This is a frnall long mufcle, fituated laterally between
the whohe bafis of the jaw and the throat. It is flelliy
at both extremities, and tendinous in the middle,, as if
it confifted of two fmall mufeles joined endwife by a ten¬
don, and from thence it is called dipajlrtcui in Greek,
and biventer in Latin.
It is fixed by one flefhy extremity in the {ulcus of the
hmftoid apophyfis. From thence it runs forward, in¬
clining towards the os hyoides, where the fir ft flefhy bo¬
dy ends in a. rhund tendon, which is connefted to the la¬
teral part and root of. the cornua of that bone by a kind
of aponeurotic ligament, and not by a vagina or pulley.
Here the tendon is incurvated, and prefently ends, in
the other fl.efhy body, -which is- fixed immediately above
the internal-labiurn of the bafis of tire chin near the fym-
phyfis, in a final! nnecjua! deprefBon. This infertion
is broader than that of the other extremity.
Uses of the Mufcles- nuhith wove the Lower Jvw.
The two temperafes afting together, raife the lower
jaw, prefs the teeth in that jaw againft the upper teeth,
‘and pull it back when it has been carried fo far forward
as that the lower incifores get before the upper. They
perform the laft motion by their inoft poftericr portion,
which paffes over the root of the zygomatic apophyfis,
and the other motions by the eo-operatioa of all their
mufculnr radii ^
The two maffeters ferve to raife the lower jaw, and
to pufh die lower teeth againft the upper, in which ufe
they co-operate with the temporaks. They likewife .
bring this jaw forward by their external and largeft por¬
tion ; draw, it back by their middle portion; and move it
laterally by their fu peri or portions aAing alternately.
Tiy the co-operation of all the three portions, they prefs
die lower teeth againft the upper.
Both pterygoidsei internt ferve to raife the lower jaw,
to bring the lower teeth near the upper, and to move the .
jaw iateraily, as in grinding, the food..
O M Y. Part If.
The two pterygoidsci externi bring the lower jaw for¬
ward, in order to fed the lower incilorts before the up¬
per ; in which addon they are antagenifts to the pofie-
rior portion of the temporales, and the great portion of
the maffeters. When one of them.adts, it carries the
chin obliquely forward, or turns it towaid the other
fides. This oblique motion is performed alternately by
thefe two rnufcles adhng fingly.
The two digaftrici ferve to deprefs the lower jaw, and
to open the mouth.
The force of thefe mufcles is very confiderable, as
pay be fnewa by laying the elbow on a table, and lean¬
ing with the chin on the liand, while we endeavour at
the fame time to deprefs the lower jaw ; for as in that
cafe this jaw cannot defeend, the digaftrici, by their in-
fertions in the appphylis niaftoiosa', raiie the upper jaw, ^
by bending the head backward on the condyles of the
lower jaw.
Sect. XVII. The Muscles which move the
Os Hyoides.,
M Y L O - HT O I D AS U S.
This is a broad, thin, penniform mufcle, fituated
tranfverfely between the internal lateral parts of the ba¬
lls of the lower jaw, and lying on die anterior portions
of the two digattric mufcles.
It is made up of two equal flefny portions, one lying
on the right fide, the other on the kit, both in the fame
plane, arid joined to a fniall middle tender), which isin-
fetted anteriorly in the middle of the bafis of the os hy¬
oides, and from thence runs directly forward, diminifh-
ing gradually in its courfe.
Lach portion is fixed, by flefhy fibres, to the internal
lateral part of the lower jaw, between the oblique pro¬
minent line and the bafis, under the firft four dentes mo-
lares and caninus. The anterior and grtateft part of
the other fibres of each portion run obliquely from be¬
fore backward, to the middle tendon, in which they are
regularly fixed, the anterior fibres being the fhorttft, and
a fmall triangular void fpace being formed between them
and the fymphyfisof the chin.
The pofterior fibres of each portion, which makb a-
bout a fourth part of the whole, run likewife on each
fide to the bafis of die os hyoide?, and are inferted along
the Lower edge of its anterior or coavexiidc, and from
thence a little upward,
GENIO-HYOIDiF.US.
This is a final] and prettylong flefhy mufide, frua-ted.
between the fymphyfis of the chin and the os hyoidts,.
clofe by its fellow.
It is'fixed, by its. anterior extremity, to a rough> and-
for,retimes prominent furface, on the inner or pofterior
fide of the fymphyfis of the lower jaw, a little above the
chin. From thence it runs backward, and is inferred
anteriody iu the upper edge of the bafis-of the os hyo;-
Part II. A ^ N A 1
des, having firil fent off a finail lateral portion, which is
fixed a little higher to the root of the cornu.
STYLO-HYOIDJEUS.
Th i s is a fmall flelhy mufcle, lying obliquely between
ibe apophyfis flyloide,s and os hyoides.
It is fixed laterally, by one extremity, to the root or
bafis of the apophyfis flyloides, ami, by the other, to
the os hyoides, at the place where the bafis and cornu
unite, and like wife, to the cornu itfelf, from whence it
has been called Jiylo-cerato-hyoiciaus.
OMOPLATO-HYOIDiEUS Jive OMO-HY-
OID./EUS vulgo CORACO-HYOID^iUS.
This is a very long final! mufcle, much narrower
than the Iterno-hyoidaeus, and fituated obliquely on the
fide of the neck or throat, between the fcapula and os
hyoides.
It is commonly fixed, by the lower extremity, to the
fuperior colla of the fcapula, between tire Imall notch
and the angle, and fometiines very near the angle.
From thence it pafies over the coracoid apophyfis, ad¬
hering fometimes to it by a kind of aponeurolis, or mem¬
branous ligament, and from this auhelion the name of co-
ruco- hyji dee at was.given it by fome wiio had not difco-
vered its main infei tion.
It is likewife often fixed to the ctavicula by ligamen¬
tary or flefliy fibres ; and has fomefim s been ieen infert-
ed in the whole middle portion of that bone, being infe-
parably united with the fleroo-hyoidaeus.
Having parted the clavicle, it is bent forward, and
runs between the llerno-mafloidtcus and internal jugular
vein, the Imal'l middle tendon being fituated in tiiis place.
From thence rt runs up to its infei tion in the inferior la¬
teral part of the bafis of the os hybides, hear the cornu,
and infertion of the llerno-jiyoidseus, which it covers a.
little.
SrERNO-HvoiDiEus Jive Stje r no-Cl e i do-Hyoid je us.
This is a long, thin, flat mufcle, broader at the lowsr
than at the upper part, and fituated, together with its
fellow, on the fore-fide of the throat.
It is fixed, by its lower extremity, in the fupericr and
latetal part of the inner or potlei ior fide of the iternum,
in the pofterior part oY the fternal extremity of ~the cla-
vicula, in the tranfverfe ligament which conn eels thefe
two bones, and in the inner or back-fide of the cartilage
of the firft rib. All, thefe other infertions are more esn-
fiderable than that in the flernum, which-is fometimes
fcarce perceivable.
From tkence it runs up on the fore-fide of the afpera
ar.teria, joined to its fellow by a membrane,, which forms
a fort of linea alba,, and is inferted laterally in the lower
edge of the bafis of the os hyoides-.
Uses of the Mufcles which move the Os Hyoides.
The mcchanifin obfervedin the motions of the os by-
Q M Y. eaj
oides, as well as in thole of the fcapula, is very particu*
lar, and very different from what we find in all the other
bones of the human body. All thefe bones have folid
fulcra, on which they are either moved or kept fixed by
the proper mufcles, after the manner of a lever or other-
wife ; whereas the. os hyoides is merely fufpended, ha¬
ving nothing to fix it but thefe very mufdes which move
it in different manners.
The mylo-hyoidseus reprefents a moveable floor or bed,
which fultains the tongue with its mufdes and glands,
and forms the bottom of the cavity of the mouth. When
the two portions of this mufcle ad together, they draw
the os hyoides a little forward, and fix it in that fitua-
tion, raifing the whole tongue at the. fame time, and
comprelfing the glandulae fub-linguales. If one lateral
portion ads more than the other, it puts the os hyoides
in an oblique fituation, and in a condition to ferve as a.
fixed point for the motions of the tongue.
The genio-hyoidei pull the os hyoides much more for¬
ward than the mylo-hyoideus ; and as they are very nar¬
row, and clofely united together, there feems to be very
little occafion for one of them to ad without the other.
The fiylo-hyoidsei move the cs hyoides upward and
backward in a middle diredion, between thole in which
they lie; and they draw it more upward and backward
when they ad freely; that is, without being checked or
confined by other mifcles, in the manner which we fitall
fee hereafter. When one ads more than the other, the
bone is moved obliquely.
The omo-hyoidai, or ccraco-hyeidafi, ad as the ffylc-
hyoidsti, in a middie diredion between the oblique direc¬
tions in which they lie, and draw the cs-hycides doy n-
ward -nd backward, when they are not counter hularxed
by the ftylo-hyoidosi; When one ads more-tban the o-
.ther, the bone is drawn obliquely to the right or kfc
■hand.
When, thefe raufcles and the flylc-hyoiucci • ad toge¬
ther, the os hyoides is drawn backward by a .dire# mo¬
tion compounded of four oblique motions. This com¬
pound motion is direded mere upward er more JaterrJIv,.
according to the degree of adion of the ftylo-hycidrm,
or omo-hyoidaci, or of any one mufcle of each-pair; and
in all thele morions the four mufeks- are ccjguerbalanctd.
by the genio-hyoidad.
The lierno-hycidiEi draw the cs hyoicks ciredly coy. r -
ward, and ferve to counterbalance the different metio»s-
of the flylo-bycidaei, omo-hvoider!, and gemo-hycicko.
They may, in fome cafes, be affiled by the itemo-tli) -
roidati, and tbyro-hyoidtei, as we fb-ail fee hereafter.
According to the method commonly obferved in com¬
plete treatifes of myology, the following mufcles remain
itiji to' be defer ibed, rh. The mufcles of the toreheae,
occiput, palpebrae* eye, external ear, nefe,Jjps, tongue,
uvula, dudus Euilachianas, pharynx, larynx, parts i :
generation, amrs, and bladder; and to-tnefe we ought,
even to add the heart as MrCowper has-dope in the late
edimm of his Myotomy. But the deferiptien of thefe.
will be better undretflood when we tieat of the gaits rod
which they belong. See Part VI,
2 X P L A-
224
A N A T
O
M Y.
Part II.
EXPLANATION
Fig. i. The Muscles immediately under the Com¬
mon teguments on the anterior part of the body, are
reprefented on the right fide; and on the Jeft fide the
Muscles are feen which come in view when the exte¬
rior ones are taken away.
A, The frontal mufele. E, The tendinous aponcurofis
v/hiah joins it to the occipital; hence both named oc-
cipito-frontulis. C, Attolens aurem. D, The ear.
E, Anterior auris. F F, Orbicularis palpebrarum.
G, Levator labii fuperioris alseque nafi. H, Levator
hbiorum communis. I, Zygomaticus minor. K, Zy-
gomaticus major. L, MafTeter. M, Orbicularis la-
biorum, N, DeprefTor labii inferioris. O, Depref-
for labiorum communis. P, Buccinator. QO^Pla-
tyfma myoides. R R, Sterno-cleido maffoidseus.
S, Part of the trapezius. T, Part of the fcaleni.
Superior Extremity.—U, Deltoides. V, Pec-
toralis major. W, Part of the latiffimus dorfi.
X X, Biceps flexor cubiti. Y Y, Part of the bra-
chixus externus. Z Z, The beginning of the tendi¬
nous aponeurofis, (from the biceps) which is fpread
over the mufcles of the fore-arm. a a. Its ftrqng
tendon inferted into the tubercle of the radius,
b b, Part of the brachixus internus. c, Pronator te¬
res, d, Flexor carpi radiahs. e, Part of the flexor
carpi ulnaris. f, Palmaris longus. g, Aponeurofis
palmaris. 3, Palmaris brevis. 1, Ligamentufn car¬
pi annulare. 2 2, Abdu&or minimi digiti. h, Su¬
pinator longus. i, The tendons of the three exten-
fors of the thumb, k, Abdudtor pollicis. 1, Flexor
pollicis longus. m m, The tendons of the flexores di-
gitorum communi.—The (heaths are entire in the right
hand,—in the left cut open, to (hew the tendons of
the flexor profundus perforating the fublimis.
Muscles not referred to—in the left fuperior ex¬
tremity.—n, Pe&oralis minor, feu ferratus anticus mi¬
nor. o.lEFhe two heads of (x x) the biceps, p, Co-
raco-brachialis. q q, The long head of the triceps
extenfor cubiti. r r, Teres major, f f, Subfcapula-
ris. t t, Extenfores radiales. u, Supinator brevis,
v, The cut extremity of the pronator teres, w, Fle¬
xor digitorum fublimis. x, Part of the flexor pro¬
fundus. y, Flexor pollicis longus. z. Part of the
flexor pollicis brevis. 4, Abdudtor minimi digiti.
5, The four lumbricales.
Trunk.— 6, Serrated extremities of the ferratus
anticus major. 7 7, Obliquus externus abdominis.
8 8, The linea alba. 9, The umbilicus. 10, Pyra-
midalis. 11 11, The fpefmatic cord. On the left
fide, it is covered by the cremafter. 12 12, Rec¬
tus abdominis. 13, Obliquus internus. 14 14, &c.
>.ntercoilal mufcles.
Interior Extremities.—a a> The gracilis.
of PLATE XV.
t> b. Parts of the triceps, c c, Pedtineus. d d, Pfoas
magnus. e e, Jliacus internus. f. Part of the glu-
txusmedius. g. Part of the glutxus minimus, h. Cut
extremity of the redhis cruris, i i, Vaftus externus.
k. Tendon of the redtus cruris. / /, Vaftus internus.
* Sartorius mufcle. * * Flefhy origin of the tenfor
vaginas femoris or membranofus. Its tendinous aponeu¬
rofis covers (/), the vaftus externus in the right-fide.
m m. Patella, n n. Ligament or tendon from it to
the tibia. 0, Redlus cruris. />, Crureus. q y.^The
tibia, r r, Part of the gemellus or gaftrocnemius ex¬
ternus. fff. Part of the foleus or gaftrocnemius
internus. /, Tibialis anticus. u% Tibialis pofticus.
v v, Peronxi mufcles. w iv, Extenfor digitorum lon¬
gus communis. x x, Extenfor pollicis iongus.
y, Abdudtor pollicis.
Fig. 2. The Muscles, Glands, Arc. of the left
fide of the face and neck, after the common teguments
and platyfma myoides have been taken off.
a, The frontal mufcle. b, Temporalis and temporal ar¬
tery. c, Orbicularis palpebrarum, d, Levator labii
fuperioris proprius. e, Levator labiorum communis,
f> Zygomaticus. g, Depreflbr labii inferioris pro¬
prius. h, Depreflbr labiorum communis, i, Buc¬
cinator. k, Mafleter. 1 I, Parotid gland, m. Its
dudt. n, Sterno-cleido maftoides. o. Part of the
trapezius, p, Sterno-hypidxus. q, Sterno-thyroi-
dxus. r, Omo-hyoidxus. f. Levator fcapulas. tt, Sca-
leni. u, Part of the fplenius.
Fig. 3. The Muscles of the face and neck, in view
after the exterior ones are taken away.
a a, Corrugator fuperciliorum. b, Temporalis, c, Ten¬
don of the levator p.alpebrae fuperioris. d, Tendon
of the orbicularis palpebrarum, e, MafTeter. f, Buc¬
cinator. g. Levator labiorum communis, h, De-
preflbr labii fuperioris proprius. i, Sphindter oris,
k, Depreftbr labiorum communis. 1, Mufcles of the
os hyoides. m, Sterao-cleido maftoideus.
Fig. 4. Some of the Muscles of the os hyoides, and
fubmaxillary gland.
a, Part of the mafleter mufcle. b, Pofterior head of
the digraftic. c, Its anterior head. d d, Sterno-
hyoidaeus. e, Omo-hyoidasus. f, Stylo-hyoidceus.
g, Submaxillary gland in fitu.
Fig. 3. The fubmaxillary gland and dudl.
Mufculus mylo-byoidasus. b, Hyo-gloflfus. c, fub¬
maxillary gland extra fitu. d. Its dud.
E X P L A-
Part II.
A N A T
O M Y.
22S
EXPLANATION
Fio. i. The Muscles immediately under the com¬
mon teguments on the pofterior pai t of the body are
reprefented in the'right fide;—and on the left fide the
Muscles are feen which come in view when the ex¬
terior ones are taken away.
Head.—A A, Occipito-frontalis. B, Attollens aurem.
C, Part of the orbicularis palpebrarum. D, Mafie-
ter. E, Pterygoidaeusinternus.
Trunk.—Right fide. F F F, Trapezius feu cu-
cullaris. G G G G, Latiffimus dorfi. H, Part of
the obliquus externus abdominis.
Trunk.—Left fide. I, Splenius. K, Part of
the complexus. L, Levator fcapulae. M, Rhom-
- boides. N N, Serratus pofticus inferior. O, Part
of the longiflimus dorfi. P, Part of the facro-lum-
baris. Part of the femi-fpinalis dorfi. R, Part
of the ferratus anticus major. S, Part of the obli¬
quus internus abdominis.
Superior Extremity.—Right fide. T, Del-
toides. U, Triceps extenfor cubiti. V. Supinator
longus. W W, Extenfores carpi radialis longior &
brevior. X X, Extenfor carpi ulnaris.' Y Y, Ex¬
tenfor digitofum communis. Z, Abduflor indicis.
12 3, Extenfores poilicis.
Superior Extremity.—Left fide, a, Supra-
fpinatus. b, Infra-fpinatus. c. Teres minor, d. Te¬
res major. e, Triceps ■ extenfor cubiti. f f, Exten¬
fores carpi radialis. g, Supinator brevis, h, Indi¬
cator. 1 2 3, Extenfores pollicis. i, Abdudor mi¬
nimi digiti. k, Interoffei.
Inferior Extremity.—‘Right fide. 1, Glutae-
us maximus. m, Part of the gluta;us medius. n, Fafi-
cialis. o, Gracilis, p p, Addu&or femoris magnus.
q, Part of the vaftus internus. r, Semimembranofus..
s, Semitendinolus. t, Long head of the biceps flexor
cruris, u u, Gaftrocnemius externus feu gemellus,
y, Tendo Achillis. w, Soleus feu gaftrocnemius in¬
ternus. x x, Peronaeus longus Sc brevis, y, Ten¬
dons of the flexor digitorum'longus ;—and under them
* flexor digitorum brevis, z, Abduftor minimi digiti.
Inferior Extremity.—Left fide. m, n, 0,
P Py 9.* r> ■f> L v.7 w w> * y* a. Point the fame
PAR
OF THE A
THE heart throws the blood into two great arteries;
one of which is named aorta, the other arteria
faimonalii.
Vol. I. 10.
of PLATE XVI.
parts as in the right fide, a, Pyriformis. b b, Ge¬
mini. cc, Obturator internus. d. Quad rat us femo- '
moris. e, Caccygasus. /, The fliort head of the bi-'
ceps flexor cruris, g g, Plantaris. h, Poplitseus.
i, Flexor pollicis longus.
Fig. 2. The palm of the left hand after the common
teguments are removed, to Ihew the Muscles of the
fingers.
a, Tendon of the flexor carpi radialis. b, Tendon of
the flexor carpi ulnaris. c, Tendons of the flexores
digitorum. d, Abdudlor pollicis. e e, Flexor polli¬
cis longus. f, Flexor pollicis brevis, g, Palinaris
brevis, h, Abdu&or minimi digiti. i, Ligamentum
carpi annulare, k, A probe put under the tendons of
the flexor digitorum fublimis; which are perforated
by 1, the flexor digitorum profundus, m m m m, Lum-
bricales. n, Addudtor pollicis.
Fig. 3. A fore-view of the foot and tendons of the
flexores digitorum.
a. Cut extremity of the tendo AchiHis. b, Upper part
of the aftragalus. c, Os calcis. d, Tendon of the
tibialis anticus. e. Tendon of the extenfor pollicis
longus. f. Tendon of the peronaeus brevis, g. Ten¬
dons of the flexor digitorum longus, with the nonus .
Vefalii, h h, The whole of the flexor digitorum
brevis.
Fig. 4. Muscles of the Anus.
a a, An outline qf the buttocks, and upper part of the*
thighs. b, The teftes contained in the fcrotum.
c c, Sphindter ani. d, Anus. e, Levator ani.;
f f, Ereflor penis, g g, Accelerator urinae. h. Cor¬
pus cavernofum urethrae.
Fig. 5. Muscles of the Penis.
a a, b, d, e e, f f, h, point the fame as in fig. 4. '
c, Sphindter internus ani. g g, Tranfverfusperinaei.,
T III.
K T E R I E S.
The aorta diftributes the blood to all the parts of the
body, for the nourilhment of the parts, and for the lecre-.
tion of different fluids.
t 3 L The*
3
22<1 A N . A
The arteria puimonalis carries the venal blood through
all the capillary veffels of the lungs.
Both thefe great or general arteries are fubdivided in¬
to feveral branches, and into a great number of ramifi¬
cations. In this part, we lhall defcribe the diftributions
of the aorta, leaving the pulmonary artery to the parti¬
cular hiftory of< the lungs. See Part VI.
The bafis of the heart being very much inclined to the
right fide, and turned a little backward, the aorta goes
out from it in a direct courfe, nearly over-againft the
fourth vertebra of the bagk^ Its. courfe is diredt with
refpcdt to the heart; but with refpedt to all the reft of
the body, it afcends obliquely from the left to the right
hand, and from before backward.
Soon after this, it bends obliquely from the right
hand to the left, and from before backward, reaching
as high as the fecond vertebra of the back; from whence
it runs down again in the fame diredlion, forming an ob¬
lique arch. The middle of this arch is almoft oppofite
to the right fide or edge of the fuperior portion of the
fternum, between the cartilaginous extremities or fternal
articulations of the firft two ribs.
From thence the aorta defeends in a diredt courfe a-
long the anterior part of the vertebrae, all the way to the
os lacrum, lying a little toward the left hand ; and there
it terminates in two fubordinate or collateral trunks, cal¬
led arterise iliacae.
The aorta is by anatomifts generally divided into the
aorta afeendens and aorta defeendens, though both are
but one and the fame trunk. It is termed afeetidens,
from where it leaves the heart to the extremity of the
great curvature or arch. The remaining part of this
trunk from the arch to the os facrum or bifurcation, al¬
ready mentioned, is named defeendens.
The aorta defeendens is further divided into the fupe¬
rior and inferior portions ; the firft taking in all that lies
above the diaphragm ; the other all that lies between the
diaphragm and the bifurcation.
The aorta .afeendens is chiefly diftributed to part of
the thorax, to the head and upper extremities. The
Ikperior portion of the aorta defeendens furnilhes the reft
of the thorax; the inferior portion furnilhes the abdo¬
men and lower extremities.
The great trunk of the aorta, through its whole length,
fends off immediately feveral branches, which are after¬
wards differently ramified; and thefe arterial branches
may be looked upon as fo many trunks with refpedf to
the other ramifications, which again may be confidered
as fmall trunks with regard to the ramifications that they
fend off.
The branches which go out immediately froip the
trunk of the aorta, may be termed original or capital
branches; and of thefe fome are large and others very
fmall.
The large capital branches of the aorta are rhefe:
two arterise fubclavite, two carotides, one cxliara, one
mefenterica fuperior, two renales, formerly termed e-.
mulgents, one mefenterica.inferior, and two iliacae.
The fmall capital branches are chiefly the arteriae co-
ronarias cordis, bronchiales, cefophagaeae, intercoftales, dia-
phragmaticae inferiorcs, fpermaticae, lumbares, andfacrae.
T O M Y, Bart Ilf.
Thefe capital branches or arteries are for the moft part
difpofed in pairs; there being none in odd numbers but
the caeliaca,, the two menfentericae, fome of the oefopha-
gaeae, the bronchialis, and fometimes the facrae.
The aorta gives rife, to two fmall arteries, called co-
ronarias cordis, which go to the heart and its auricles;
one of which is fituated anteriorly, the other pofteriorly,
and fometimes they are three in number.
From the upper part of the arch or curvature, the a-
orta fends out commonly three, fometimes four large ca¬
pital branches, their origins being very near each other.
When there are four, the two middle branches are term¬
ed arterise carotides; the other two, fubclaviaeand
both are diftinguiftied into right and left.
When there are but three branches, which js ofteneft
the cafe, the firft is a fhort trunk, common to the right
fubclavian and carotid, the fecond is the left fubclavian,
and the third the left carotid.
The origin of the left fubclavian terminates the aorta
afeendens.
The carotid arteries run up directly to the head, each
of them being firft divided into two, one external, thtn-
ther internal. The external artery goes chiefly to the
outer parts of the head and dura mater, or firft; covering
of the brain. The internal enters the cranium, through
the bony canal of the os petrofum ; and is diftributed
through the bra>n by a great number of ramifications.
The fubclavian arteries feparate laterally, and almoft
tranfverfely, each toward that fide on which it lies, be¬
hind and under the claviculae, from wheace they have
their name.
The fubclavian on each fide terminates at the upper
edge of the firft rib, between the lower infertions of the
firft fcalenus mufcle; and there, as it goes out of the tho¬
rax, takes the name of arteria axillaris.
During this courfe of the fubclavian artery, feveral
arteries arife from it, viz. the mammaria interna, me-
diaftina, pericardia, diaphragmatica minor five fuperior,
thymica and trachealis.
The thymica and trachealis on each fide are, in fooie
fubjefts, only branches of one fmall trunk which fpring
from the common trunk of the right fubclaviaii and ca¬
rotid.
They are generally final! arteries which run fometimes
feparate, and fometimes partly feparate and partly joined.
The fubclavian fends off likewife the mammaria inter¬
na, vertebrales, cervicales, and fbmetimes feveral of the
upper intercoftales.
The axillary artery, which is only a continuation of
the fubclavian from where it goes out of the thorax tof
the axilla, detaches chiefly the mammaria externa, or
tboracica fuperior, thoracica inferior, fcapulares externa:,
fcapularis interna, humeralis or mufcularis, <bc. After¬
wards it is continued by different ramifications, and un¬
der different names, over the whole arm, all the way to
the ends of the fingers.
The fuperior portion of the aorta defeendens gives off
the arteriae bronchiales, which arife fometimes by a fmall
common trunk, fometimes feparate, and fometimes do
not come immediately from the aorta. It next fends off
the oefophagaeae, which may be looked upon as medjaftinse
pofterioies;
ANA
Part III.
pofteriores; and then the intercoftales from its pofte-
rior part, which in fome fubjedts come all from this por¬
tion of the aorta, in others only the ioweft eight Or
nine.
The inferior portion of the defcending aorta, as it paf-
fes through the diaphragm, gives off the diaphragmatic^
inferiores, or phrenicce; afterwards it fends off feveral
branches, anteriorly, poderiorly, and laterally.
The anterior branches are the aeliaca, which fuppHes
the flomach, liver, fpleen, pancreas, <bc. the mefente-
rica fuperior, which goes chiefly to the mefentery, to
the fmall inteftines, and that part of the great inteitines
which lies on the right fide of the abdomen ; the me-
fenterica inferior, which goes to the great inteftines on
the left fide, and produces the haemorrhoidalis interna;
and laftly, the right and left arterUe fpermaticas.
The pofterior branches are the arterite lumbares, of
which there are feveral pairs, and the facrae, which do
not always come from the trunk of the aorta.
The lateral branches are the capfulares and adipofe,
the origin of w'hich often varies; the renales, formerly
termed emuIgents ; and the iliacse, which terminate the
aorta by the bifurcation already mentioned.
The iliac artery on each fide is commonly divided into
the external or anterior, and internal or pofterior.
The internal iliaca is likewife named arteria hypoga-
ftrica; and its ramifications are diftributed to the vifcera
contained in the pelvis, and to the neighbouring parts,
both internal and external.
The iliaca externa, u'hich is the true continuation of
the iliac trunk, goes on to the inguen, and then out of
the abdomen, under the ligamentum Fallopii; having firft
detached the epigaftrica, which goes to the mufculi ab¬
dominis redi. Having quitted the abdomen, it com¬
mences arteria cruralis, which runs down upon the thigh,
and is diftributed by many branches and ramifications to
dl the lower extremity.
We (hall now go on to examine particularly all the ca--
pital er original branches of the aorta, from their origin,
to the entry of them and of their ramifications into all
parts of the body.
The Cardiac or coronary arteries of the heart arife
from the aorta immediately on its leaving the heart.
They are two in number, and go out near the two fides
of the pulmonary artery, which having firft fur rounded,
they afterwards run upon the bafis of the heart in form
of a kind of crown, or garland, from whence they are
called coronariae ; and then purfue the fuperficial traces
of the union of the two ventricles, from the bafis of the
heart to the apex, and are afterwards loft in the fubitance
of the heart.
The Car or id arteries are two in number, one called
the right carotid, the other the left. They arife near
each other, from the curvature of the aorta, the left im¬
mediately, the right moft commonly from the trunk of
the fubclavia on the fame fide.
They run upon each fide of the trachea arteria, be¬
tween it and the internal jugular vein, as high as the la¬
rynx, without any ramification. Each of thefe trunks is
afterwards ramified in the following manner.
The trunk having reached as high as the larynx, is
T O M Y. 227-
divided into two large branches or particular carotids, one
named external, the other internal, becaufe the firft goes
chiefly to the external parts of the bead, the fecond
enters the cranium, and is diftributed to the brain.
The external carotid is anterior, the internal pofteri¬
or ; and the external is even fituated more inward, and
nearer the larynx, than the other.
The external carotid is the fmalleft. It runs infenfi-
bly outward, between the external angle of the lower
jaw, and the parotid gland, which it iupplies as it paf-
fes. Afterwards it afcends on the fore-lide of the ear,
and ends in the temples.
In. this courfe it fends off feveral branches, which may
well enough be divided into anterior or internal, and po-
fterior or external; and the principal branches of each
kind are thefe:
The fifft anterior or internal branch .goes out from the
very origin of the carotid on the infide ; and having pre-
fently afterward taken a little turn, and fent off branches-
to the jugular glands near it, to the fat and Ikin, it runs
tranfverfely, and is diftributed to the glandula? thyroi-
dses, and to the mufcles and other parts of the larynx:
It likewife fends fome branches to the pharynx and muf¬
cles of the os hyoides.
The fecond anterior branch paffes over the neareft cor¬
nu of the os hyoides, to the mufcles of that bone and
the tongue, and to the glandulse fublinguales ; afterwards
pafltng before the cornu of the os hyoides, it lofes itfelf
in the tongue, from whence it has been called artiria
fublingualis.
The third branch, or arteria maxillaris inferior, goes
to the maxillary gland, to the ftyloid and maftoid mul-
cles, to the parotid and fublingual glands, to the muf*
cles of the pharynx, and to the fmall flexors of the
head.
The fourth branch, arteria maxillaris externa, paffes
anteriorly on the maffeter mufcle, and middle of the low-"
er jawr, near the chin. Afterwards it runs under the
mufculus triangularis labiorum, which it foppliss as well
as the buccinator and the quadrates menti.
It fends of a particular branch, very much contorted,
which divides at the angular commiffure of the lips, and7
running in the fame manner along the fuperior and infe¬
rior portions of the mufculus orbicularis, it communicates
on both fides with its fellow, and thereby forms a kind!
of arteria coronaria labiorum.
Afterwards it afcends towards the nares-, and is diftri¬
buted to the mufcles, cartilages, and other parts of the!
nofe, fending down fome twigs which communicate with*
the coronary artery of the lips, Laftly, if reaches the'
great angle of the eye, and is ramified and loft on the
mnfculus orbicularis palpebrawm, fuperciliaris, and fron-'
tails. Through all this- courfe, it is named arteria an-'
gularis.
The fifth branch, maxillaris interna, arifes ovep-agairft’
the condyle of the lower jaw. It paffes behind the con--
dyle, and having given off a twig among the'mufculi'
pterygoidsei, it is divided into three principal branches.
The firft branch, or fphcno-maxillaris, goes through
the inferior orbitary, or fphenomaxillary fiffure, to the*
orbit,: after having fupplied the mufculi periftaphy-hni,',
andf
r:8
A
N
O
M
p.irt in:
and the gJanduloas jnernbrahe. of; the poftjtdot bares,
through the forainea fpheno-palatinum. ..
It is dutriinu-ed inreriorly and'date rally to th" parts
contained id .the-.orbit, and detaches..a;fmaU .‘fibaltern -
branch through the -extremity of the ;foperior orbitary,
or fplv.enoidal fiiTuco, which enters the craBiu.n, and is
fpsnt upon the dura mater. , . . . • i :
It fends oft-Jikewife , another<fubaIter.n branch, which
paHes through tise poderior opening, of the drbitary ca-
nal, and having furnilbed tiie maxillary finus and the
teethe goes, out by the inferior orbitary hole, and on the
cheek communicates with the angular artery.
The’ fecond. branch runs through the canal of the low¬
er jaw, and being diftributed to the alveoli and teeth,
goes out at the hole near thexhin, and lofes itfelf in the
neighbouring mufcles.
The third branch runs up between the internal and ex¬
ternal-carotids, paffes through the foramen fpinale of the
fphenoidal bone, and b didributed to the dura mater by
feveral ramifications. ,
. The fixth. anterior or internal branch, which is very
fmall, is fp.ent .on the mufculus maffeter.
iird externa! or pofterior.-branch is named arteria
occipitalis, ft paffes obliquely before the'internal jugu¬
lar vein, and having twigs to the mufcuslus ftylo-hyoidasus,
ftyjo-gloiTus, and digadricus, it runs between the dyloid
and raadoid apophyfes, along the madoid groove, and
goes .to the mufeles and integuments which cover the os
occipitis, turning feventl times in an undulating manner,
as it afeends backwards.
The fecond external branch fpreads itfelf on the Out¬
ward car, by a great many final] twigs on each fide, fe-
veial of which run inward, and furnilh the cartilages,
meatus- auditorius, Ikin of the tympanum, .and internal
ear.
The trunk of the external carotid afeends .afterward
above the zygoma, pading between the angle of the low¬
er jaw and parotid gland, and forms the temporal artery,
which divides into an anterior, middle, and pofterior
branch.
The anterior branch of the temporal artery goes to
the mufculus frontalis, communicates with the arteria
angularis, and fomerimes gives off a very fmall artery,
which pierces the internal apophyfis of the os mal-ae all
the \yay to the orbit. The middle branch goes partly to
the mufculus frontalis, partly to the occipitalis. The po-,
fterior branch goes to the occiput, and communicates with
the arteria occipitalis. All thefe branches likewife fur-
iiilh the integuments.
The internal carotid artery, leaving the general trunk,
is at firft a little incurvated, appearing as if either it were
the only branch of that trupk, or a branch of the trunk
of the external carotid.
It is fituated a little more backward than the carotis
.externa, and generally runs up, without any ramification,
as high as the lower orifice of the great canal of the apo¬
phyfis petrofa of the os temporis. It enters this orifice
directly from below upward.
At the end of this canal it is again incurvated from
below upward, and enters the cranium through a notch
of the fphsneidal.bone. Then it bends from behind for¬
ward,, and makes a third angle bn the fide of. the fella
fphenoidalis ; and again a fourth, under the clinoid apo¬
phyfis of drat fella.
As it leaves the bony canal to enter the cranium,.it,
fends off a branch through the fphenbidal fiiTure to the
orbit and eye, and. foon afterwards another through the;
foramen opticum.
Afterwards the internal carotid runs under the bafis of-j
the brain, to the fidelof the infundibulum, where it is at a
fmall diftance from the internal carotid of the other fide, -
and there, it commonly divides into two principal branches,:
one anterior, and one •poftertor.
■ The.anterior branch runs forward under the brain,-
firft feparating from that on the other fide, then coming
nearer again, it unites with it by an anaftoraofis, or com- •
munication, in the intcrftice between the olfa&ory nerves..
Afterwards having fent off forae fmall arteries, which
accompany thefe.nerves, it leaves its fellow, and divides-
into two or three.
The firft of thefe branches goes to the anterior lobe
of the brain; the fecond, which is fometimes double,-•
is inverted on the corpus callofum, to which it gives fome -
ramifications, as alfo to the falx of the dura mater, and;
middle lobe of the brain. The third goes to the po¬
fterior lobe of the brain.
The pofterior branch communicates firft of all with
the vertebral artery of the fame fide, and then divides
into feveral rami, which run between the fuper-iicial cir¬
cumvolutions of the brain, and are ramified in manydif-,
ferent directions on and between th.efe circumvolutions,
all the way to the bottom of the fulci.
Alhthefe ramifications are covered by the pia mater,
in the duplieature of which they are diftributed, and form
capillary reticular textures in great numbers ; and after¬
wards are loft in the inner fubftance of the brain.
The Subclavian aiteries are two in number, one;
right, the other left; and they arife from the arch of the .
aorta, on each fide of the left carotid, which commonly
lies in the middle between t^em ; but when both caro¬
tids go out feparately, the^, both lie between the fub-
claviae.
The right fubclavian is larger at the beginning than ,
the left, when it produces the right carotid; its origin
is likewife more anterior and higher, becaufe of the ob¬
liquity of the arch of the aorta. Both of them are di-.
ftributed much in the fame manner, and therefore the-
defeription of one may likewife be applied to the other..
The right fubclavian, the longeft of tfie two, gives .
off, firft of all, fmall arteries to the mediaftinum, thy- >
mus, pericardium, afpera arteria, &r. which are named
mediajlinum, thymic#, pericardia;, and tracheales.
Afterward this right fubclavian, at about’ a finger’s
breadth from its origin, often produces the common ca¬
rotid of the fame fide; and at a fmall finger’s breadth.
from the carotid,, it gives off commonly three confider-
able branches, viz. the mammaria interna, cervicalis,
and vertebralis, and fometimes an intercoftal artery,
which goes to the firft ribs, called intercojialis fuptrior.
The arteria thymic?, communicates with the mammaria -
interna, and. fometimes arifes from the anterior middle;
part of the common trunk of the fubciavian and carotjd.
The
Part HI. A N' A
The thymus receives likewife fome rami from the mam-
maria interna, and intercodalis fuperior.
The pericajdia arifes much in the fame manner with
the thymica, and runs, down upon the pericardium, all
the way to the diaphragm, to which it fends fome fmall
ramifications.
The medialtina arifes fometimes immediately after the
thymica, and is diftributed principally to the media-
ftinum.
The trachealis, which may likewife be named guttu-
ralis inferior> runs up from the fubclavia, in a winding
Courfe, along the afpera arteria, to the glandulse thyroi-
dxx and larynx, detaching fmall arteries to both fides,
one of which runs to the upper part of the fcapula.
The internal mammary artery comes from the anterior
and lower fide of the fubclavia, near the middle of the
clavicula, and runs down, for about a finger’s breadth,
behind the cartilages of the true ribs, an inch diftant
from the fternum.
In its paflage, it fends rami to the thymus, mediafti-
num, pericardium, pleura, and intercoftal mufcles. It
likewife detaches other branches through thefe mufcles,
and between the cartilages of the ribs, to the peftoralis
major, and other neighbouring mufcular portions; to the
mammse, membrana adipofa, and Ikin.
Afterwards it goes out at the thorax, on one fide of
the appendix erififormis, and is loft in the mufculus ab¬
dominis redtus, a little below its upper part.
The cervical artery arifes from the upper fide of the
fubclavian, and is prefently afterward divided into two,
which come out, fometimes feparately, fometimes by a
fmall common trunk. The largeft of thefe two arteries
is anterior, the other pofterior.
The anterior cervicalis, running behind the carotid of
the fame fide, is diftributed to the mufculus coraco-hyoi-
daeus, maftoidaeus, cutaneus, fterno-hyoidaeus, and fter-
no^thyroidasus ; to the jugular glands, the afpera ar¬
teria, the . mufcles of the pharynx, bronchia, oefopha-
gus; and to the anterior mufcles which move the neck
and head.
The pofterior cervicalis arifes fometimes a little after
the vertebralis, and fometimes from that'artery. It paf-
fes under the tranfverfe apophyfis of the laft vertebra of
the neck, and fometimes through a particular hole in that
apophyfis ; and from thence runs up backward in a wind¬
ing courfe, on the vertebral mufcles of the neck, and
then returns in the fame manner.
The vertebral artery goes out from the pofterior and
upper fide of the fubclavian, almoft oppofite to the mam-
maria interna and cervicalis. It runs up through all the
holes in the tranfverfe apophyfes of the vertebrae of the
heck, and, in its paflage, fends off little twigs, through
the lateral notches of thefe vertebrae, to the medulla fpi-
nalis and its coverings. It alfo gives arteries to the ver¬
tebral mufcles, and to other mufcles near them.
It fends off a fmall branch, which is ramified on the
outer and pofterior parts of the occiput, and communi¬
cates with the cervical and occipital arteries. Having af¬
terwards reached the great foramen of the os occipitis,
it enters the cranium, and pierces the dura mater.
As foon as it enters the cranium, it fends feyeral fmall
• Vol-.jI. No. 10. 3
T O M Y. 229
ramifications to the back-part of the medulla objkmgata,
and to the corpora olivaria and pyramidalia, which are
likewife fpread on the back fides of the fourth ventricle'
of the brain, and form the plexus choroides of the ce¬
rebellum.
Afterwards it advances on the apophyfis bafilaris of the
os occipitis, inclining, by fmall degrees, toward the ver¬
tebral artery of the other fide, all the way to the extre¬
mity of that apophyfis, where they both join in one com-,
mon trunk.
The arteria bafilaris runs forward under the great
tranfverfe protuberance of the medulla oblongata, to
which it gives ramifications, as well as to the neighbour¬
ing parts of the medulla.
The fpinal arteries are two in number, one anterior,,
and one pofterior; both produced by both vertebrales,
each of which, as foon as it enters the cranium, fends
out a fmall branch, by the union of which the pofterior
fpinalis is formed. Afterwards the vertebrales advancing,
on the apophyfis bafilaris, or produdlion of the occipital
bone, detach backward two other fmall branches, which
likewife meet, and, by their union, form the fpinaiis an¬
terior. Thefe fpinal arteries run down on the fore and
back fides of the medulla fpinalis, and, by , fmall tranf-.
verfe ramifications, communicate with thofe which the
intercoftal and lumbar arteries fend to the fame part.
The internal auditory artery goes off from each fide of
the arteria bafilaris, to the organ of hearing, accompa-.
nying the auditory nerve, having firft furnilhed feveral
fmall twigs to the membrana arachnoides.
The pofterior meningaea arifes from the fame trunk
with the auditoria interna, and goes to the back-part of
the dura mater, on the occipital and temporal bones, and
fupplies the neighbouring lobes of the brain.
When the fuperior intercoftal artery does not go out
from the trunk of the aorta defcendens, it commonly a-
rifes from the lower fide of the fubclavian, and runs down
on the infide of the two, three, or four uppermoft true
ribs, near their heads, and fends off, under each rib, a
branch, which runs along the lower edge, and fupplies the
intercoftal mufcles and neighbouring parts of the pleura.
Thefe branches, or particular intercoftal arteries, com¬
municate with each other at different diftances by fmall
rami, which run upward and downward from one to the
other, on the intercoftal mufcles.
The du£his arteriofus, which is found only in the foe¬
tus and in very young children, ariics from the aorta de¬
fcendens, immediately below the left fubclavian artery.
In adults, this dudt is ftirunk up and clofed, and appears
onlyjike a {Iron ligament adhering by one end to the a-
orta, and by the other to the pulmonary artery, fo that
in reality it deferves no other name than that of ligamen-
tum arteriofum.
The bronchial arteries go fometimes from the fore-fide
of the fuperior defcending aorta, fometimes from the firft'
intercofral, and fometimes from the arteria ceibphagaea.
Sometimes they arife feparately from each fide, to go to
each lung, and fometimes by a fmall common trunk,
which afterwards feparates towards the right and left,
hand, at the bifurcation of the afpera arteria, and ac-,
company the ramifications of the bronchia.
The
*30 Ana
The bronehialis gives a fmall branch to the neighbour¬
ing auricle of the heart, which communicates with the
arteria coronaria.
The cefophagaere are generally two or three in number,
fometimes but one. They arife anteriorly from the aorta
defcendens, and are diftributed to the cefophagus, <&c.
The inferior intercoftals are commonly feven or eight
on each fide, and fometimes ten, when the fuperior in-
tercoftals arife likewife from the:aorta defcendens; in
which cafe thefe run obliquely upward.
They arife along the back-iide of the defcending aorta
in pairs, all the way to the diaphragm, and run tranf-
verfely towards each fide, on the bodies of the vertebrae.
Thofe on the right fide pafs behind the vena azygos ; and
afterwards they all run to the intercoftal mufcles, along
the lower edge of the ribs, all the way to the Ilernum,
6r near it.
They fend branches to the pleura, to the vertebral
mufcles, to thofe mufcles which lie on the outfides of the
ribs, and to the upper portions of the mufcles of the ab¬
domen ; and they communicate with the arteriae epiga-
ftricae and lumbares.
Before they take their courfe along the ribs, each of
them detaches one branch between the tranfverfe apo-
phyfes on both fides, to the vertebral mufcles, and ano¬
ther which enters the great canal of the fpina dorfi.
Afterwards each intercoftal artery having reached the
middle of the rib, or a little more, divides into two prin¬
cipal branches, one internal, the other external. Soon
after this divdkm, the arteries that run upon the falfe
ribs, feparate a little from them, being gradually bent
downward one after another, and are fpread upon the
abdominal mufcles.
The fubclavian artery having left the thorax imme¬
diately above the firll rib, in the interface left between
the portions of the fcalenus, there receives the name of
axillaris, becaufe it paffes under the axilla.
In this courfe it gives off, from its infide, a fmall
branch to the infide of the firft rib; and afterwards four
or five principal branches, viz. the thoracica fuperior,
or mammaria externa, thoracica inferior, mufeukris, or
ficapularis externa, fcapularis interna, and humeralis.
The fuperior thoracica, or external mammary artery,:
runs down, in a winding courfe, on the lateral parts of
the thorax, and erodes the ribs. It gives branches to
the two pe&oral mufcles, to the mamma, raufculus lub-
clavius, ferratus major, latiffimus dorli, and to the upper
portions of the coraco-brachialis and biceps.
The inferior thoracic artery runs along the inferior
cofta of the fcapula,, to the mulculus fubfcapularis, teres
major and minor, infra-fpinatus, latiffimus dorfi, ferratus
major, and the neighbouring intercofial mufeks, commu-
picating with the arteriae fcapulares.
The external fcapulary artery paffes through the notch
in the fuperior cofta of the fcapula, to the mufculus fu-
pra-fpinatus and infra-fpinatus, teres major and minor,
and to the articulation of the fcapula witli the os humeri.
The internal fcapularis arifes from the axillary artery
near the axilla, and runs backward, to be diftributed to
the fubfcapularis, giving branches to the ferratus major,
to the axillary glands, and to the teres major..
T G M Y. Part Ilf.
The humeral artery arifes from the lower and fore-fide*
of the axillaris, and runs backward between the head of
the os humeri and teres major, furrounding the articula¬
tion, till it reaches the pofterior part of the deltoides,
to which it is diftributed.
During this courfe, it gives feveral branches to the fu¬
perior portions of the anconaei, to the eapfular ligament
of the joint of the Ihoqlder, and to the os humeri itfelf*
through feveral holes immediately below the great tube-
rofity of the head of that bone.
Oppofite to the origin of this humeral artery, the ax¬
illaris fends off another fmall branch, which runs in a,
contrary direftion, between the head of the os humeri,
and the common upper part of the biceps and coraco-i
brachialis; and having given branches to the vagina and
channel of the biceps, and to the peripfieum, aftenyards
joins the principal humeralis.
The axillary artery having given off thefe branches,
paffes immediately behind the tendon of the pefloralis
major, where it changes its former name for that of ar¬
teria brachialis, It runs down on the infide of the arm„
over the mufculus coraco-brachialis and apeonaeus inter-
nus, and along the inner edge of the biceps, behind the
vena bafilica, giving final! branches on both, fides to the,
neighbouring mufcles, to the periofteum, and tp the bone,.
Between the axilla and middle of the arm, it is co¬
vered only by the fkin and fat; but afterwards it is hid
under the biceps, and runs obliquely forward as it cje-.
feends; being at feme diftance from the internal con¬
dyle, but it does not reach the middle of the fold of the
arm.
Between the axilla and this place, it fends off many
branches to the infra-fpinatus, teres majo?’ and minor*
fubfcapularis, latiffimus dorfi, ferratus major, and other
neighbouring mufeks, to the common integuments, and,
even to the nerves. Below the fold of the arm, it di¬
vides into two principal branches, one called arteria cu¬
bit a I is, the other radial is.
From its upper and inner part, it fends off a particu¬
lar branch, which runs obliquely downward and back¬
ward over the anconsei, and then turns forward again,
near the external condyle, where it communicates with a
branch of the arteria radialis.
Immediately below the infertion of the teres major, it
gives off another branch, which runs from within out-:
wards, and front behind forward, round the os humeri
and defeends obliquely forward, between the mufculus,
hrachiseus, and anconaeus externus, to both which it is
diftributed in its paffage. Having afterwards reached,
the external condyle, it unites with the branch laft men¬
tioned, and likewife communicates with a branch of the
arteries of the fore-arm, fo that there is here a. triple a-
naftomofis.
About the breadth of a finger below this fecond
branch, the brachial artery fends off a third, which runs;
down towards the internal condyle, and communicates
with other branches of the arteries of the fore-arm, as.
we lhall fee hereafter.
About the middle of the arm, or a little lower, much
about the place where the brachial artery begins to be
covered by the biceps, it fends off a brunch, which is
diftrihnxed
Part III. ANA
diftributed 10 the'pefiofleum, and penetrates the bone,
between the mufculus brachiaeus and ancons:us internes.
About an inch lower, it gives off another branch,
which having furnifhed ramifications to the anconseus in-
ternus, runs over the inner condyle, and hkewife com¬
municates with branches of the arteries of the fbre-arm.
Having got below the middle of the arm, the brachial
artery detaches another branch, which runs behind the
inner condyle, in company with a confiderable nerve;
and having palled over the mufcles inferted in this con¬
dyle, it communicates with that branch of the cubital
artery which encompafles the fold of the arm.
A little lower, it fometiraes fends out another branch,
which paffes on the fore-fide of the inner condyle, and
then communicates with a branch which runs up from the
cubital artery. Thefe three communicating branches are
termed collateral arterie*.
The common trunk of the brachial artery having
reached the fold of the arm, runs, together with a vein
and a nerve, immediately under the aponeurofis of the
biceps, and pafies under the vena mediana, detaching
brandies on each fide to the neighbouring mufcles.
About a large finger’s breadth beyond the fold of the
arm, this artery divides into two principal branches, one
inner or pofterior, named caizW/j; the other outejr or
anterior, named radialis.
From this bifurcation, the brachial artery fends
branches on each fide, to the fupinator longus, pronator
teres, fat, and Ikin. It fornetimes, though very rarely,
happens, that this artety is divided from ks origin into
two large branches, which run down on the arm, and af¬
terwards on the fore-arm, where they have the names
of cubit alii and radialis.
The cubital artety finks in between the ulna and the
upper parts of the pronator teres, perforatus, ulnaris
gracilis, and radialis internus; then leaving the bone, it
runs down between the perforatus and ulnaris internus,-
all the way to the carpus and great tranfverfe ligament,
and fends out feveral branches.
The firlt is a fmall artery, which runs inward to the
inner condyle, and then turns upward, like a kind of re¬
current, to communicate by feveral branches with the
collateral arteries of the arm, already mentioned, and
particularly with the third. A little lower down, ano¬
ther fmall branch goes off, which having run upward a
little way, and almoft furrounded the articulation, com-
rounicates with the fecond collateral artery of the arm,
between the olecranum and inner condyle.
Afterwards, the cubital artery having, in its courfe
between the heads of the ulna and radius, reached the
interoffeous ligaments, fends off two principal branches,-
one internal, the other external, called the interoffeous
arteries of the fore-arm.
The external artery pierces the Kgament about three
fingers breadth below the articulation, and prefently af¬
terwards gives off a branch, which runs up, like a recur-
lent, toward the external condyle of the os humeri, un>-
der the ulnaris externus and anconceus minimus, to which
it is diftributed, as alfo to the fupinator brevis.
Afterward, this external interoffeous artery rune down
oa the ontfide of the ligament,, and is diftributed to the
T O M Y. 251
ulnaris externus, extenfor digitorum commnnis, and to
the extenfores pollicis indicis and minimi digiti; commu¬
nicating with fome branches of the internal interoffeous
artery.
Having reached the lower extremity of the ulna, it u-
nites with a branch of the internal interoffeous artery,
which, at this place, runs from within outward, and is
diftributed, together’'with it, on the convex fide of the.
carpus and back of the hand; communicating with the
^rteria radialis, and with a branch of the cubitalis.
By thefe communications, this artery forms a fort of
irregular arch, from whence branches are detached to
the external interoffeous mufcles, and to the external la-,
teral parts of the fingers.
The internal interoffeous artery runs down very clofa
to the ligament, till it reaches below the pronator teres,
between which and the pronator quadratus, it perforates-
tjhe ligament, and goes to the convex fide of the carpus
and back of the hand, where it communicates with the
external interoffeous artery, with the radialis and inter¬
nal branches of the cubitalis.
From the origin of the two interoffese, the cubital ar¬
tery runs down between the perforatus, perforans, and
ulnaris internus, along the ulna, fending branches to the
neighbouring parts.
Afterward, it paffes over the internal tranfverfe liga¬
ment of the carpus, by the fide of the os pififorme, and
having furniflied the lkint palmaris brevis, and metacar-,
pius, it flips under the aponeurofis palmaris, giving off
one branch to the hynothenar minimi digiti, and another*,
which runs toward the thumb, between the tendons of
the flexors of the fingers, and the bafes of the metacar¬
pal bones. 1
It likewife fends off a branch, which, running between
the third and fourth bones of the metacarpus, reaches
to the back of the hand, where it communicates with the
external interoffeous artery. Afterwards, having fup^
plied the interoffeous mufcles, it communicates with the
radialis ; and they both form an arterial arch, in the hoi-,
low of the hand.
This arch fends- from its concave fr.le, towards the fe-.
cond phalanx of the thumb, a branch for the lateral in¬
ternal part -thereof, and then ends near the head of the
firft metacarpal bone, by a communication with the ra¬
dialis, having firft given a branch to the forefide of the
index, and another to the fide of the thumb next the
former. Thefe communicate, at the ends of the fingers,
with the neighbouring branches, as in the other fingers. .
This arch fends likewife fmall twigs to the interoffeous
mufcles, to the lumbricales, palmaris, and to other neigh-!
bouring parts ; and, laftly, to the integuments.
The radial artery begins by detaching a fmall branch,
which, runs upward like a recurrent toward the fold of
the arm, and turns backward round the external condyle,
communicating with the neighbouring branches from the
trunk of the brachial artery.
It runs down along the infide of the radius, between,
the fupinator longus, pronator teres, and the integuments,,
giving branches t<? thefe mufcles, and likewife to the per-^
foratus, perforans, and fupinator brevis. From thence
it runs, in a winding courfe, tov a ds the extremity off
the:
ijz A N A T
tins radius, fupplying the flexors of the thumb and pro-
Uator quadrates.
Having reached the extremity of the radius, it runs
nearer the fkin, efpecially toward the anterior edge of
fhe bone, being the artery which we feel there when we
examine the pulfe.
At the end of the radius, it gives off a branch to the
thenar ; and,' after having communicated with the arch
of the cubital artery in the palm of the hand, and fet
off fome cutaneous branches at that place, it detaches
one along the whole internal lateral part of the thumb.
Afterwards it runs between the lirfl: phalanx and ten¬
dons of the thumb, to the interftice between thg bafis of
this firft phalanx, and of the firft metacarpal bone,
where it turns to the hollow of the hand.
At this turning, it fends off a branch to the external
lateral part of the thumb, which having reached the end
thereof, communicates, by a fmall arch, with the branch
which goes to the internal lateral part.
It likewife fends branches outward, which run between
the two firft bones of the metacarpus, and the two ten¬
dons of the radialis externus; and it communicates with
an oppofite branch of the cubitalis, together with which
it furnifhes the external interoffeous mufcles and integu¬
ments of the back of the hand and convex fide of the
carpus.
Laftly, the radial artery terminates, in its paffage o-
ver the femi-interofleous mufcle of the index, near the
bafis of the firft metacarpal bone, and as it runs under
the tendons of the flexor mufcles of the fingers, where
it is joined to the arch of the cubitalis,
It lends off another branch, which runs along the
fore-part of the firft bone of the metacarpus, to the con¬
vex fide of the index, where it is loft in the integu¬
ments.
The left Diaphragmatic artery goes out commonly
from the aorta defcendens, as it paffes between the cru¬
ra of the fmall mufcle of the diaphragm. The right
diaphragmatic comes fometimes from the neareft lumbar
artery, but molt commonly from the casliaca. Thefe
arteries likewife have the name of arterine phrenicce.
They appear almolt always in feveral ramifications on
the concave or lower fide of the diaphragm, and feldom
on the upper or convex fide. They give fmall branches
to the glandulae renales, or capfulae atrabilaria.
They fend likewife fmall branches to the fat which
lies upon the kidneys, from whence they have the name
of arterke adipofas.
Befides thefe capital diaphragmatic arteries, there are
others of a fubordinate clafs, which come from the in-
tercoftales, mammarias internae, mediaftinae, pericardiae,
and casliaca.
The caeliac artery arifes anteriorly, and a little to the
left hand, from the aorta delcendens, immediately after
its paffage through the fmall mufcle of the diaphragm,
nearly oppofite to the cartale, between the laft vertebra
of the back, and the firft of the loins. The trunk of
this artery is very Ihort; and near its origin, it fends off
from the right fide two fmall diaphragmaticae, though
fometimes there is only one, which goes to the right
O M Y. Part III.
hand, and is afterwards diftributed both ways; commu¬
nicating with the other arteries of the fame name, which
come from the intercoftales and mammarise. The left
branch fends rami to the fuperior orifice of the ftomach,"
and to the glandula renalis on the fame fide; the right
furnilhes the pylorus, and the renal gland on the right
fide.
Immediately after this, the cseliaca gives off a confi-:
derable branch, named arteria ventriculi ceronaria, and
gajirica, or gafiricd fuperior; and then it prefently di¬
vides into two large branches, one toward the right hand,
named arteria bepatica; the other to the left, called
fplerica.
The coronary artery of the ftomach goes firft to the'
left fide of that organ, a little beyond the fuperior ori¬
fice ; round which orifice it throw's branches, and alfo to
every part of the ftomach near it; and thefe branches
communicate wdth thofe which run along the bottom of
the ftomach to the pylorus.
Afterwards it runs on the right fide of the fuperior
orifice, along the fmall curvature of the ftomach, almoft
to the pylorus, where it communicates with the arteria
pylorica; and turning towards the fmall lobe of the li¬
ver, it gives off fome branches to it.
Then it advances, under the dudhis venofus, to the
left lobe of the liver, in which it lofes itfelf near the be¬
ginning of the duft, having firft given off fome fmall
branches to the neighbouring parts of the diaphragm and
omentum.
As fpon as the hepatic artery leaves the caeliaca, it
runs to the upper and inward part of the pylorus, in
company with the vena portae, fending off two branches,
a fmall one called arteria pylerica, and a large one na¬
med gajirica dextra, or gajirica major.
The pylorica is ramified on the pylorus, and having
diftributed branches to the neighbouring parts of the fto¬
mach, which communicate with thofe of the right gaftri-
ca, it terminates on the pylorus, by an anaftomolis with
the coronary artery of the ftomach.
The right gaftrie artery having paffed behind and be¬
yond the pylorus, fends out a confiderable branch, na¬
med arteria duodenalis, or iatejlinalis, which fometimes'
comes from the trunk of the hepatica, as we flaall fee-
hereafter. Afterwards this gaftric artery runs along on
the right fide of the great curvature of the ftomach, to
the neighbouring pans of which, on both fides, it diftri--
butes branches.
Thefe branches communicate with thofe of the arteria
pylorica, and of the coronaria ventriculi, and with the
right gaftro-epiploicce, w'hich furnifh the neareft part of
the omentum, and communicate with the mefenterica fu¬
perior. After this, the right gaftric artery ends in the-
left, which is a branch of the fplenica. ■
The duodenal or inteftinal artery runs along the duo¬
denum on the fide-^iext the pancreas ; to both which it
furniflies branches, and alfo to the neighbouring part of
the ftomach.
The hepatic artery, having fent out the pylorica and
right gaftrica, advances behind the dudlus hepaticus, to¬
ward the veficula fellis, to which it gives two principal
branches1
Part III. A N A T
tranches called arierix cyfticce; and another named bila-
ria, which is loft in the great lobe of the liver.
Afterwards, this artery enters the fiflure of the liver,
and joins the vena portae, with which it runs within a
membranous vagina, called capfula Glijfoni, and accom¬
panies it through the whole fubftance of the liver by nu¬
merous ramifications, which may be termed artcrite he-
paticte propria.
Before it enters the liver, it gives fmall branches to
the external membrane of this vifcus, and to the capfular
Gliffoni.
Immediately after the origin of the fplenic artery from
the caeliaca, it runs toward the left hand, under the fto-
mach and pancreas, to the fpleen. It adheres clofely to
the pofterior part of the lower fide of the pancreas, to
whichit gives feveral branches, named arter'ue pancreatica.
Near the extremity of the pancreas, under the left
portion of the ftomach, the fplenic artery gives off a
principal branch, called gajirica JiniJira or minor,
which runs from left to right along the left portion of
the great curvature of the ftomach, giving branches to
both fides of this portion, which communicate with thofe
of the coronaria ventriculi.
This gaftric artery fends likewife another branch at
lead to the extremity of the pancreas, which commu¬
nicates with the other pancreatic arteries. It alfo fup-
plies the omentum with branches, termed gajiro-epi-
ploica ftnijlr*', and then it communicates with the right
gaftrica; and from this union, the gaftro-epiploicas mediae
are produced
Afterwards, the fplenic artery advances towards the
fpleen, in a courfe more or lefs contorted; but before it
arrives at that vifcus, it gives two or three branches to
the large extremity of the ftomach, commonly called
vafa brevia ; and one to the omentum, named epiploica.
- At the fpleen, this artery divides into four or five
branches, which enter that vifcus, after having given
fome fmall twigs to the neighbouring parts of the fto¬
mach and omentum.
The fuperior mefenteric artery arifes anteriorly from
the lower portion of the defcending aorta, a very little
way below the caeliaca, going out a little towards the
right hand, but bending immediately afterwards to the
left.
Near its origin, it gives off a fmall branch, which
dividing into two, goes to the lower fide of the head of
the pancreas, and neighbouring part of the duodenum,
communicating with the inteftinalis by fmall arches, and
^reolse or mafhes.
Afterwards it paffes over the duodenum, between this
inteftine and the meferaic vein, between the two laminae
of the mefentery; and then bending in an oblique direc¬
tion from left to right, and from above downward, by
very fmall degrees, it advances toward the extremity of
the ileum. By this incurvation, it forms a kind of long
arch, from the convex fide of which a great many
branches go out.
Thefe branches are fixteen or eighteen in number, or
thereabouts, and almoft all of them are bellowed on the
fmall inteftines, from the lower third part.of the duo¬
denum to the caecum and colon.
V'oa-. I. No. 10.
o m y. 233
As they approach the inteftines, all thefe branches
communicate, firft by reciprocal arches; then by ariolm
and malhes of all kinds of figures; from which is de¬
tached an infinite number of fmall ramifications, which
furround the inteftinal canal, like an annular piece of net¬
work.
The firft branches from the convex fide of the mefen¬
teric arch, which are very (hort, fupply the pancreas and
mefocolon, and communicate with the duodenal artery.
The lall branches go to the appendicula vermiformis,
and fend a portion of an arch to the beginning of the
colon.
The confiderable branches from the concave fide of the
mefenteric arch, are feldom above two or three in num¬
ber ; but before they arife, a fmall ranius goes out to
the duodenum, and gives fome very fmall arteries to the
pancreas.
The firft confiderable branch from the concave fide of
the arch goes into the mefocolon towards the right por¬
tion of the colon.
The fecond principal branch, having run for fome (pace
through the mefentery, divides into three rami; .the firft
of which goes to the lower part of the right portion of
the colon, the fecond goes to the beginning of the colon
and inteftinum caecum.
The third ramus of the fecond branch, having com¬
municated with the fecond, gives fmall twigs to the cae¬
cum, appendicula vermiformis, and extremity of the
ileum.
The lower naefenteric artery goes out anteriorly from
the aorta defeendens inferior, about a finger’s breadth
or more above the bifurcation, and below the fpermatic
arteries; and having run about the length of an inch,
or fomething more, it is divided into three or four
branches.
The firft or fuperior branch, about an inch from its
origin, divides into two rami; the firft of which runs
along the left portion of the colon. The fecond ramus
having communicated with the firft, runs down upon the
fame portion of the colon.
The middle branch divides into two rami; one of
which pafl'es upward on the extremity of the colon, com¬
municating by arches with the fecond ramus of the fupe¬
rior branch; the other runs down on the extremity of
.the fame inteftine.
The lower branch goes to the fecond portion of the
colon, or to both.
It fends another confiderable branch downward, called
arteria hamorrhoidalis interna., which runs down behind
the inteftinum redum, to which it is diftributed by fe¬
veral ramifications.
The renal arteries, commonly called emulgents, are
ordinarily two in number, and go out laterally from the
inferior defcending aorta, immediately under the mefen-
terica fuperior, one to the right hand, the other to the
left.
They .run commonly without divifion, and almoft hori¬
zontally to the kidneys, into the deprelfions of which
they enter by feveral branches, which form arches in the
inner fubftance of thefe vifeera.
From thefe arches, numerous fmall rami go. out to-
t 3 N ward
3
6 34 A NAT
ward the circumference or outer furface of the kidneys.
Ordinarily, the right renal artery pafies behind the
vena cava and renal vein on the other fide; and the left
artery, firli behind and then before the vein.
The arteries of the renal glands, which may be term¬
ed arterix capfulares, arife fometimes from the aorta
above the arteria renalis, and give out the arterias adipo-
fie, which go to the fat of the kidneys. Sometimes
they come from the trunk of the cseliaca. The right
capfular artery comes moft commonly from the arteriaje-
nalis of the fame fide, near its origin; the left from the
aorta, above the renalis.
The fpermatic arteries are commonly two in number,
fometimes more. They are very fmall, and go out an¬
teriorly from the aorta dcfcendens inferior, near each o-
ther, about a finger’s breadth below the arterise renales,
between the two mefentericx, or between the renales
and mefenteriae inferiofes.
They fend off to the common membrane of the kidney
fmall branches, named arteria adipofx; and afterwards
they run down upon the pfoas mufcles, on the fore-fide
of the ureters, between the two laminte of the perito-
nseum.
They give feveral confiderable branches to the perito-
nseum, and communicate both with the mefentericte and
adipofe. They likewife fend fmall arteries to the ureters.
Afterwards, they pafs in men through the tendinous
openings of the abdominal mufcles in the vagina of the
peritonaeum, and are diftributed to the tefticles and epi¬
didymis, where they communicate with a branch of the
iliaca externa.
In v/omen they do not go out of the abdomen, but
are diftributed to the ovaria and uterus, and communi¬
cate with branches of the hypogaftrica, at the jagged ex¬
tremities of the tubse Fallopianae.
The lumbar arteries go out pofteriorly from the infe¬
rior defeending aorta, in five or fix pairs, or more, much
in the fame manner with the intercoftals.
They may be divided into fuperior and inferior. The
fuperior fend fmall branches to the neighbouring parts of
the diaphragm and intercoftal mufcles, and fupply the
place of femi-intercoftal arteries.
They are diftributed on each fide to the pfoas mufcles,
to the quadrati lumborum, and to the oblique and tranf-
yerfe mufcles of the abdomen; and by perforating the
•oblique mufcles, they become external hypogaftric arte¬
ries. They go likewife to the vertebral mufcles, and to
the bodies of the vertebrae, and enter the fpinal canal
through the lateral notches, to go to the membranes,
<bc. forming rings much in the fame Inanner with the
intercoftals.
The arteriae faerse go out commonly from the back
part of the inferior defeending aorta, at the bifurcation.
They are two, three, or four in number, and fometimes
but one. They are ramified on the os facrum, and on
the neighbouring parts of the peritonaeum, inteftinum
xedtum, fat, 6'c. and enter the canal of that bone through
the anterior holes, being there diftributed toward each fide.
They likewife, fend fmall arteries to the large fafciculi of
nerves, which go out through the holes of the os facrum,
and they penetrate the inner fubftance of that bone.
O' M Y.' Part Ilf.
The inferior defeending aorta ends' at ’the laft verte¬
bra of the loins, and fometimes higher, in two large la¬
teral branches, one on the right hand, the other on the
left, called arteria iliaca; each of which is a common
trunk to two other arteries of the fame name. This bi¬
furcation lies on the anterior and left fide of that of the
vena cava.
The primitive iliac arteries divaricate gradually as they
defeehd, advancing obliquelytoward the anterior and low¬
er part of the oftii ilium, without, any confiderable rami¬
fication for about the breadth of three fingers, .except a
few" very fmall arteries that go to the os 'facrum.. They
likewife give fmall arteries to the peritonasum, to the coats
of the veins, and to the fat and ureters.
The right iliac trunk pafles fir'ft on the forefide of
the origin of the left iliac vein, and runs down on the
forefide of the right vein, almoft to the place where it
goes out of the abdomen, its courfe being there directed
more inwardly. The left trunk goes down likewife be¬
fore the left vein, but lies a little toward the infide as it
leaves the abdomen.
About three fingers breadth from their origin, each
iliac trunk is divided into two fecondary arteries, one ex*
terrial, the other internal. The external artery has no
particular name; the internal is termed
The external iliaca on each fide runs down on the ili¬
ac mufcle to the ligamentum Fallopii, under which it
goes out of the abdomen. In this courfe, it gives off
only a few fmall arteries to the peritonaeum, and other
parts near it; but as it pafles out of the abdomen under
the ligament, it detaches two confiderable branches, one
internal, the other external.
The internal branch is named arteria cpigajlrica, and
goes out anteriorly from the external iliaca. From thence
it runs obliquely upward on the tendon of the tranfverfe
mufcle towards the pofterior part of the redtus.
Afterwards the epigaftric artery runs up along the po¬
fterior or inner fide of this mufcle, fending ramifications
to the tendons of the neighbouring mufcles, {he. and
then lo’fes itfelf by a true anaftomofis of feveral ramifi¬
cations, with the mammaria interna.
The external branch of the outer iliaca goes off late¬
rally from the outfide of that artery under the ligamen¬
tum Fallopii, and from thence to the internal labium of
the os ilium, where it divides into two, and is ramified
on the oblique and tranfverfe mufcles of the abdomen
communicating with the arteria lumbaris,
Befides thefe two branches, the external iliaca gives
off a fmall ramus internally, under the ligament, which
runs to the Vagina of the fpermatic rope ; and fometimes
another fmall twig goes from the outfide to the os ilium.
The internal iliaca or hypogaftrica, having run a little
more than a finger’s breadth inward and backward, bends
by fmall degrees obliquely forward, and toward the out¬
fide ; and afterwards contrafting in its dimenfions, it ends
in the umbilical artery, which ought to be looked upon
as a true continuation of the trunk of the hypogaftrica.
This arteria umbilicalis afeends on the fide of the
bladder, and having detached fmall rami ’to that vifeus
and to the neighbouring parts of the peritonaeum, drir.
it contracts, and in adults is quite clofed up above the
middle
Part III. A N A T
middle of the bladder. It lilcewife gives branches to the
uterus, and to the neighbouring parts in both fexes.
Afterwards it afcends in form of a ligament to the umbi¬
licus, where it joins the .umbilical artery on the other
(ide.
From the convex fide of the curvature of the hypoga-
ftric artery, four or five principal branches commonly go
out very near each other, t>/z. iliaca minor, glutaea, fcia-
tica, pudica communis, five pudica hypogaltrica, and ob-
turatrix.
■ The iliaca minor, the moft pofterior of thefe branches,
and which is often no more than a ramus of the glutaea,
paiTes between the Ufl; two lumbar nerves, and divides into
two rami, one of which enters the canal of the os facrum
through the lowefl: large anterior holes; the other paf-
fes behind the mufculus pfoas, to which it gives twigs,
and behind the crural nerve, being afterwards diftributed
to the iliac mufcle, and to the middle part of the infide
of the os ilium j penetrating into the fubltance of the bone
fometimes by one hole, fometimes by more.
The arteria glutaea is fometimes the largeft of all the
hypogaftric branches. Near its beginning it fometimes
fends out the iliaca minor, and fometimes the fmall ra¬
mus that goes from that artery to the os facrum and o-
ther parts fixed to that bone. . Afterwards this artery
goes out of the pelvis, in company with the fciatic
nerve, through the upper part of the great finus of the
os innominatum, below the mufculus pyriformis, and is
diftributed, in a radiated manner, to the glutaeus maximus
and medius.
In its paflage, it gives fome branches to the os facrum,
os coccygis, mufculus pyriformis, the mufcles of the a-
nus, and to the neighbouring parts of the inteftinum
reftum, forming a particular haemorrhoidalis interna. It
likewife fends twigs to the bladder and parts near it; and
detaches a pretty long branch, which runs down with
the fdatic nerve.
The arteria fciatica gives firft of all fome branches to
the mufculus pyriformis, the quadrigemini, the os fa¬
crum, and. even to the inner fide of the os ifchium.
It likewife detaches a branch, which runs under the
mufculus quadratus, to the articulation of the os femoris.
The pudica communis, called commonly pudica inter¬
na, arifes fometimes by a trunk common to it and to the
glutasa, and gives out two principal branches; the firft
of which paffes through the great finus of the os ilium,
in company with the glutaea and fciatica, and then di¬
vides into two rami.
The firft ramus goes behind the fpine of the ifchium,
between the two ligaments which lie between that bone
and the os facrum ; and runs on the infide of the tuber-
culum ifchii, all the way to the origin of the corpus ca-
vernofum penis. There it divides into feveral arteries,
one of which goes to the fphintter ani, under the name
of htsmorrkoidalis externa.
The reft are diftributed to the neighbouring integu¬
ments, to the bulb of the urethra, and to the corpus
cavernofum penis; but the laft of thefe arteries, or ra¬
ther the extremity of this firft ramus, runs from behind
foreward, over the neck of the os femoris, and commu¬
nicates with a branch of the arteria cruralis.
o m V. 235
The fecond principal ramus, called commonly arteria
pudica externa, runs between the bladder and inteftinum
re<5tum, and is diftributed in men to the veficulae femina-
les, heck of the bladder, proftate gland, and neighbour¬
ing parts of the redum.
Afterwards it runs under the os pubis on the fide of a
confiderable vein, which lies diredly under the fymphy-
fis; and it runs along the penis between this vein and a
nerve, being diftributed in its paflage to the corpus ca¬
vernofum, and communicating with the pudica minor,
which comes from the cruralis.
This fecond branch of the pudica major goes off
fometimes feparately from the hypogaftrica, efpecially in
women, being diftributed to the lateral parts of the ute¬
rus, where it communicates with the fpermatic artery,
near the jagged extremity pf the tuba Fallopiana, and
to the neighbouring parts of the vagina, <&c.
The arteria obturatrix perforates the obturator muf-'
cles, and goes out of the pelvis at the upper part of the
ligament of the foramen ovale, having firft fent a fmall
branch over the fymphyfis of the os ilium and os pubis,'
to the inguinal glands and integuments.
As it paffes by the mufcles, it divides and is diftribu-’
ted to the pe&ineus and triceps. It likewife fends Out
another branch, which communicates with that branch
of the fciatica that goes to the articulation of the os fe¬
moris ; and gives fmall arteries to the holes in the neck
of that bone.
The iliac artery goes out of the abdomen, between the'
ligamentum Fallopii and tendon of the pfoas, at the u-:
nion of the os ilium and os pubis, and there it takes the'
name of arteria cruralis.
It fends off, firft of all, three fmall branches ; one of
which, called pudica externa, goes over the crural vein
to the flrin and ligament of the penis, and to the inguinal
glands, communicating with the pudica interna. The
fecond goes to the mufculus peftineus; and the third to
the upper part of the fartorius. All thefe branches fur-
nifti likewife the neighbouring anterior integuments.
Afterwards the crural artery runs down on the head
of the os femoris ; and, by taking a particular turn, gets
on the infide of the crural vein, about three fingers breadth
from where it goes out of the abdomen.
In changing its fituation, it fends out three confider¬
able branches, one external, one middle, and' one in¬
ternal.
The external branch runs on the upper fide of the
thigh to the crureus, vaftus externus, reftus anterior,
mufculus fafciae late, and gluteus medius; fending up a
ramus to the apex of the great trochanter, which com¬
municates with the firft principal ramus of the pudica
major and fciatica.
The middle branch runs down on the infide of -the
thigh between the triceps mufcles, to which it gives fe¬
veral rami, one whereof perforates the fecond mufcle,
and is diftributed to the gluteus maximus, femi-nervo-
fus, femi-membranofus, biceps, and to the neighbouring
integuments.
The internal branch runs backward on the quadrige¬
mini, towards the great trochanter: and having detach¬
ed a ramus, which goes into the joint of the os femoris.
^6 A N A T
it runs downward, and gives rami 'to all the mufcles that
lie on the backfide of that bone, .one of which enters
the bone itfelf on one fide of the linea afpera.
Having fent off all thefe three branches, the arteria
era rills runs down between the farforius, vailus inter-
nus, and triceps, giving branches to all the parts near
it. It is covered by the fartorins all the way to the
Ipwer part of the thigh, where it is infledted backward
over the triceps tertius a little above the internal condyle
of the os feraoris. Afterwards, continuing its courfe
through the hollow of the ham, it is called arteria po-
plitta.
The poplitea, while in the ham, is covered only by
the integument, fending off branches toward each fide,
which run up upon the condyles, and communicate with
the lower ramifications of the arteria cruralis.
It lends rami to the joint of the knee, one of which
at lead paffes between the crucial ligaments. As it runs
down, it fends branches to the gallrocnemii and popli-
teus; and having reached the backfide of the head of
the tibia, it gives off two branches, one to each fide.
The firft or internal branch furrounds the fore-part
of the head of the tibia, paffing between the bone and in¬
ternal lateral ligament; and befides feveral other ramifi¬
cations,' fends up a finall branch, which communicates
v/ith the arteries that lie round the condyles of the os fe-
moris.
The fecond or external branch runs over the head of
the fibula, and between the head of the tibia and exter¬
nal lateral ligament of the knee, furrounding the articu¬
lation all the way to the ligament of the patella, and
communicating with the branches which lie round the
condyles of the os femoris, together with a branch of
the firft or internal ramus.
Immediately after the origin of thefe two rami, and
before the poplitea ends, it fends a fmall artery down on
the backfide of the interofleous ligament, very near the
tibia, into which it enters by a particular hole a little a-
bove the middle portion of the bone.
As the poplitea ends, it divides into two principal
branches, one of which runs between the heads of the
tibia and fibula, paffing from behind forwards on the in-
teroffeous ligament, where it takes the name of arteria
tibialis anterior. The fecond branch divides into two
others; one internal and largeft, called arteria per ante a
anterior; the other pofterior and fmalleft, named arteria
percnna pofterior.
The tibialis anterior, having pafied between the heads
of the tibia and fibula, fends fmall branches upward and
laterally. The feperior branches communicate with thofe
rami of the popliteus which lie round the articulation; and
the lateral branches go to the neighbouring parts. Af¬
terwards this tibial artery runs down on the forefide of
the interoffeous ligament, toward the outfide of the ti¬
bia, between the mufculus tibialis anticus and extenfer
pollicis.
Having run laterally on the tibia for about two thirds
of the length of that bone, it pafles on the forefide un¬
der the common annular ligament, and extenfor pollicis,
to the articulation of the foot; giving off feveral rami
both to the right and left hand, which communicate la-
O M Y. Part III.
terally with the tibialis pofterior and peronara pofterior,
fo that thefe two bones are in a manner furrounded by
arteries.
At the joint of the foot, it fends out branches which
run between the aftragalus and os calcis, being diftributed
to the articulation and to the bones of the tarfus.
Having paffed the fold of the foot, it fends off, to¬
ward both fides, other rami, which communicate with
the pofterior tibialis and peroncea; all thefe branches
making a kind of circles round the tarfus.
Afterwards the anterior, tibial artery advances on the
convex fide of the foot, as far as the interftice between
the firft and fecond metatarfal bones; between the heads
of which it fends a large branch, which perforates the
fuperior interoffeous mufcles, and, joining the tibialis
pofterior, forms an arch on the fide of the foot.
It likewife fends two or three confiderable branches
over the other metatarfal bones, which go to the reft of
the interoffeous rnufcles, integuments, 6c. and commu¬
nicate with each other.
Laftly, This artery terminates by two principal
branches, one of which goes to the thenar and infide of
the great toe; the other is fpent upon the outfide of the
great toe, and the infide of the fecond toe.
The tibialis pofterior, called" likewife furalis, runs
down between the folei, tibialis pofticus, flexor digito-
rum communis, and flexor pollicis; giving branches to
thefe mufcles, to the tibia, and to the marrow of that
bone, through a particular canal in its pofterior and up¬
per part.
Afterwards it runs behind the inner ankle, communi¬
cating with the tibialis anterior, and furrounded by the
neighbouring veins; and paffes to the foie of the foot
between the concave fide of the os calcis and thenar muf-
cle, where it divides into two branches, one large or ex¬
ternal, the other fmall or internal.
The great branch, or arteria plantaris externa, paffes
on the concave fide of the os calcis obliquely under the
foie of the foot, to the bafis of the fifth metatarfal bone,
and from thence runs in a kind of arch toward the great
toe, communicating there with the tibialis anterior, which
perforates the interoffeous'mufcles.
The convex fide of this arch fupplies both fides of the
laft three toes, and the outfide of the fecond toe, form¬
ing fmall communicating arches as in the hand.
The fmall branch, or arteria plantaris interna, having
reached beyond the middle of the foie of the foot, is di¬
vided into two; one of which goes to the great toe,;
communicating with the ramus of the tibialis anterior;
the other is diftributed to the firft phalanges of the other
toes, communicating with the ramifications from the arch
already mentioned.
The arteria peronaea runs down on the backfide of the
fibula, between the foleus and flexor pollicis, to which,
and to the neighbouring parts, it gives rami in its pafe
fage.
Having reached to the lower third part of the fibula,-
it fends off a confiderable branch, which runs in bet we eh
the tibia and that bone, paffing between their extremities
from behind forward, below the interofleous ligament,
and is diftributed to the integuments of the tarfus.
Laftly,
Part IV. ANA:
LaftJy, the peronsea continuing its courfe downward,
on the backfide of the fibula, as far as the os calcis,
forms an arch with the tibialis pofterior, between the a-
ftragalus and the tendo-achillis.
PAR
OF THE
TH E blood, diftributed to all parts of the body by
two kinds of arteries, the aorta and arteria pul-
tftonaris, returns by three kinds of veins, called by ana-
tomifts vena cava, vena porta, and vena pulmonaris.
The vena cava carries back to the right auricle of the
heart, the blood conveyed by the aorta to all parts of the
body except what goes by the arteria; coronarias cordis.
It receives all this blood from the arterial ramifications in
part dire&ly, and in part indirectly.
The vena portae receives the blood carried to the
floating vifcera of the abdomen by the arteria caeliaca
and the two mefentericae, and conveys it to the vena
hepatica, and from thence to the vena cava.
The vena pulmonaris conveys to the pulmonary finus,
or left auricle of the heart, the blood carried to the
lungs by the arteria pulmonaris.
We commonly talk of the vena cava in general, as if
it were but one vein at its origin, or had but one com¬
mon trunk; whereas it goes out from the right auricle
of the heart by two large feparate trunks, in a direction
almoft perpendicularly oppofite to each other, one run¬
ning upward, called vena cava fuperiorthe other down¬
ward, called vena cava inferior.
The vena cava fuperior is diftributed chiefly to the
thorax, head, and upper extremities, and but very lit¬
tle to the parts below the diaphragm.
The vena cava inferior is diftributed chiefly to the ab¬
domen and lower extremities, and but very little to,the
parts above the diaphragm.
The trunk of each of thefc two veins fends olF, much
id the fame manner with the arteries, a certain number of
principal or capital branches, which are afterwards rami¬
fied in different manners. Each trunk terminates after¬
wards by a bifurcation or a divifion into two fubordinate
trunks, each of which gives off other principal branches,
j ending in a great number of fmall trunks, rami, and ra¬
mifications.
! The fuperior vena cava runs up from the right auri¬
cle of the heart, almoft in a direCl courfe, for about two
.fingers breadth, lying within the pericardium, in the
right fide of the trunk of the aorta, but a little more an-
teriorly.
i As it goes out of the pericardium, it is inclined a lit¬
tle to the left hand, and rhen runs up as high as the car-
tM&ge of the firft true rib, and a little higher than the
1 Vol. I. No. 10. 3
O M Y. 237
From thence it runs outward, and a little above the
outer ankle communicates with the tibialis anterior by
an arch, which fends feveral fmall ramifications to the
neighbouring parts.
T IV.
VEINS.
curvature of the aorta. At this place it terminates by
a bifurcation or divifion into two large branches or fub¬
ordinate trunks, one of which runs toward the left hand,
the other toward the right.
Thefe two branches are namzi fubclavia, as lying be¬
hind the claviculae.
The trunk of the fuperior cava, from where it leaves
the pericardium to the birfurcation, fends out anteriorly
feveral fmall branches. Thefe branches are the vena
mediaftina, pericardia, diaphragmatica fuperior, thymica,
mammaria interna, and trachealis.
All thefe fmall branches from the trunk of the cava
fuperior are termed dextra; and their fellows on the o-
ther fide, called fniftra, do not arife from the trunk,
but from the left fubclavia.
Pofteriorly, a little above the pericardium, the trunk
of the fuperior cava fends out a capital branch, called
vena azygos, or vena fine pari, which runs down on the
right fide of the bodies of the vertebrae dorfi, almoft to
the diaphragm ; giving off the greateft part of the venae
intercoftales and lumbares fuperiores.
The two fubclaviae run laterally or toward each fide,
and terminate as they go out of the thorax, between the
firft rib and clavicula.
The right fubclavian, which is the Ihorteft of the two,
commonly fends out four capital branches; the jugula-
ris externa, jugularis interna, vertebralis, and axillaris.
The left fubclavian being longer than the right, gives
off, firft of all, the fnaall veins on the left fide, an-
fwering thofe on the right fide that come from the trunk
of the fuperior cava, viz. the mediaftina, pericardia,
diaphragmatica fuperior, thymica, mammaria interna,
and trachealis.
Next to thefe fmall veins, called finiftree, it detaches
another fmall branch, called intercofaiis fuperior finif-
tra, and then four large branches like thofe from the
right fubclavian, viz. the jugularis externa, jugularis
interna, vertebralis, and axillaris, which are termed ft-
nifira.
The external jugular veins are diftributed chiefly to
the outer parts of the throat, neck and head; and fend
a fmall vein to the arm, named cephalica, which afiifts
in forming a large one of the fame name.
The internal jugular veins go to the internal parts of
the neck and head, communicating with the fmufes of
f 3 O the
the dura mater, and in feveral places with the external
jugular veins.
The vertebral veins pafs through the holes in the tranf-
verfe apophyfes of the vertebrae of the neck, fending
branches to the neck and occiput. They form the finus
venales of thefe vertebrae, and communicate with the fi-
nufes of the dura mater.
The axillary veins are continuations of the fubclaviae,
from where thefe leave the thorax, to the axillae. They
produce the mammariae internae, thdracicae, fcapulafes or
humerales, and a branch to each arm, which, together
with that from the external jugularis, forms the vena
cephalica.
Afterwards the axillary vein terminates in the princi¬
pal vein of the arm, called bajilica; which, together
with the cephalica, is diftributed by numerous ramifica¬
tions to all parts'of the arm, fore-arm, and hand.
The portion of the inferior vena cava contained in the
pericardium is very fmall, being fcarcely the twelfth part
of an inch on the fore-part, and not above a quarter of
an inch on the back part. From thence it immediately
perforates the diaphragm, to which it gives the venae'
dfiaphragmaticae inferiores or pHrenicae.
It paffes next behind the liver, through the great
ftnus of that vifcus, to which it furnifhes feveral branches,
tjermed vente hepatica.
In this courfe it inclines a little toward the fpina
dorfi and aorta inferior, the trunk and ramifications of
which it afterwards accompanies in die abdomen, all the
way to the os facrum.
Thus the inferior cava fends out on each fide, in the
fame manner with the aorta, the venae adipofse, renales,
Ipermaticae, lumbarer, and facrae. Having reached to
the os facrum, it lofes the name of cava, and termina¬
ting by a bifurcation, like that of the defeending aorta,
it forms the two venae iliacae.
Thefe iliac veins having given off the hypogaftricae,
with all their ramifications, to the vifeera of the pelvis,
amd to fome other external and internal neighbouring
parts, go out of the abdomen, under the ligamentum Fal-
Ipppii, and there take the name of vetut crura/es.
Each crural vein fends off numerous ramifications to all
the lower extremity.
The vena azygos or fine pari is very confiderable, fcnd
arifes pofteriorly from the fuperior cava a little above the
pericardium.
It is immediately afterwards bent backward over the
origin of the right lung, forming an arch which furrounds
the great pulmonary veffels on that fide.
From thence it runs down on the right fide of the
vertebrae dorfi on one fide of the aorta, and before the
intercoftal arteries; and getting behind the diaphragm,
it terminates by a very fenfible anaftomofis,. fometimes
with the vena renalis, fometimes with a neighbouring
lumbar vein, and fometimes immediately with the trunk
of the cava inferior.
The vena azygos fends out two or three fmall veins
from the top of the arch, one of v/hich goes to the
afpera arteria; the others partly to the afpera artera,
and partly to the bronchia, by the name of vena:
O NT Y. Part IV1
bronchiales, accompanying, the ramifications of the bron¬
chial artery.
Afterwards the azygos detaches from the extremity:
of the arch a fmall trunk common to two or three fmalti
veins, called intercojiales fuperiores dextne, which bring
back the blood from the firft three feries of intercoftal
mufcles, and from the neighbouring part of the pleura.
Thefe intercoftal veins fend branches through the in-
tercoftal mufcles to the ferratus fuperior pofticus, ferra-
t'Qs major, &c. and afterwards they run along the in-
terftices between the ribs, communicating with the venae
mammariae.
They likewife fend fmall branches backward to the
vertebral mufcles and canal of the fpine, where they
communicate with the venal circles, or finufes which
bring back the blood from the medulla fpinalis.
As'the azygos runs'down, it fends ’off'the inferior
intercoftal veins on the right fide, one going to each fe¬
ries of intercoftal mufcles. Thefe veins run along the
lower edges of the ribs, and perforate the mufcles byr
branches, which go ta the pofterior and external part of
the thorax.
They communicate with the venae thoracicas, and moft
commonly with the mammaria interna ; and laftly, more
or lefs with each other, by perpendicular branches, near
the pofterior extremities of the ribs.
The azygos fends off Hkewife the left intercoftal veins,'
but feldom the whole number; for the fuperior veins
come often from the left fubclavian. The inferior in¬
tercoftal veins, to the number of fix or feven, come often
from the trunk of the azygos ; and running between the
aorta and vertebras, they fend off almoft the fame ramifi¬
cations with the veins on the right fide, and likewife
fome to the cefophagus.
The azygos, having reached below the laft rib, fends
off a large branch, which bending outward, perforates
the mufcles of the abdomen, is ramified between their
different planes, and communicates with die like ramifi¬
cations of the laft or laft two intetcoftal veins.
The pe&orales internae, are fmall veins difpofed in
pairs toward the right and left hand, behind the fternum
and parts near it, including the diaphragmaticae fuperi--
ores, or pericardio-diapbragmaticae, mediaftinae, mam¬
mariae internae, thymicae, pericardiae, and gutturales or
tracheales.
The right vena mediaftina goes out anteriorly from
the trunk of the fuperior cava, a little above the origin
of the azygos; the left comes from the fubclavia.
The right fuperior diaphragmatica, or pericardio-dia-
phragmatica, comes anteriorly from the root of the bi¬
furcation near the mediaftina; and is diftributed, by fe¬
veral branches, to the upper, fore, and back parts of
the pericardium, communicating with thofe of the left
diaphragmatica. The left fuperior diaphragmatica comes
from the left fubclavian, a little below the origin of the
mammaria.
The right internal mammaria arifes anteriorly from
the vena cava, a little below the angle of the birfurca-.
tion. It runs along the neareft internal or pofterior edge
of the fternum, and on the carsilaginous extremities of
the
Part IV. ANA T
the right ribs, together with the artery of the lame name.
Having reached near the diaphragm, it fends it a branch
which runs toward the tendinous plane, and communi¬
cates with the common diaphragmatic veins.
Afterwards this mammary vein gives frnall branches to
the mediaftinum, and others between the ribs to the in¬
teguments ; of which thofe that pafs between and under
the cartilages of the laft true ribs, run down on the in¬
ner or pofterior fide of the mufculi redi abdominis, be¬
ing ramified among their flelhy fibres, and communica¬
ting with the epigallric veins by feveral frnall twigs.
The left internal mammaria arifes anteriorly from the.
left fubclavian, oppolite to the cartilage or anterior ex¬
tremity of the firlt true rib.
The right vena thymica, when it arifes feparately,
Sies out from the bifurcation; and when it is wanting,
e thymus, from whence it takes its name, is furnilhed
by the gutturahs, or fome other neighbouring vein.'
This vein often reaches no lower than the inferior part
of the thymus; and the left vein of the fame name
comes from the left fubclavian, almoft cppofite to the
fternum.
The right pericardia feems to go out rather from the
origin of the right fubcl.avian, than from the trunk of
the fuperior cava. It goes to the upper fide of the pe¬
ricardium, and other neighbouring parts.
Tire right gutturalis or trachealis goes out from the
upper part of the bifurcation, above the mammaria of the
fame fide, fometimes more backward, and fometirnes
from the fubclavia. It is diftributed to the glandulae
thyroidaeae, trachea arteria, mufculi fterno - hyoidaei,
thymus, and glandulae bronchiales. It communicates,
by lateral branches, with the internal jugular vein. The
left gutturalis comes from the upper or poiierior part of
the left fubclavian, near its orign.
The right fubclavian vein is very fiiort, and its courfe
very oblique, fo that it appears to rife higher than the
left vein. It fends off, firft of all, four large branches,
viz. the vcrtebralis, which is the firit and moft pofterior;
the jugularis interna, jugularis externa, and axillaris.
The left fubclavian feems to afcend but very little after
the bifurcation; and, in this courfe, it covers the origin
of three large arteries, which come from the curvature
of the aorta. It fends off four large branches, befides
the fmall pe<5toral veins, and receives the duftusuhora-
cicus.
It likewife gives off, before its principal divifion, a
fmall trunk for the left fuperior intercoftals, and this in-
tercoftal trunk furnilhes likewife the left bronchialis.
Each fubclavian vein, hear the middle of the clavi-
cula, fends off a branch, called cephalica, which dc-
fcends near the furface of the body, between the del-
toides and peftoralis major.
Each external jugular vein arifes from the fubclavian
on the fame fide, fometimes from the axillaris, and fome¬
times from the union of thefe two veins. They run up
between the mufculus cutaneus and fterno-maftqidseus.
Sometimes they are double from their very origins;
and when they are fingle, each of them divides after-,
wards into two, one anterior, and the other poftcrior, or
rather fuperior, The anterior vein goes to the threat
O M Y. 239
and face, running up toward the angle of the lower jaw,
and the pofterior goes to the temples and occiput.
The anterior external jugular vein is often a branch of
the jugularis interna, and lometimes it comes from the
vena axillaris.
It runs up toward the lateral part of the lower jaw,
between the angle and the chin, and fends feveral branches
forwards, backwards, and inwards.
Pofteriorly it gives, (1.) A large branch on the fide of
the upper part of the larynx, which communicates with
the jugularis interna, and likewife with a large ftiort
branch of the jugularis externa pofterior. (2.) A fmali
branch, which has the fame communication, but which
is not always to be found. (3.) Another fmall branch a
little below the lower jaw, which communicates with the
jugularis externa pofterior.
Anteriorly it fends feveral branches to the mufcles. of
the larynx, fterno-hyoidsei, thyro-hyoidae, and to the in¬
teguments; and below the larynx it fends communica¬
ting branches to the jugularis externa anterior of the o-
ther fide.
A little higher, oppofite to the cartilago-thyroides, it
gives off a tranfverfe branch, which runs on the anterior
and lower part ofthe rnufeuli fterno-iqaftoidari, and com¬
municates with the jugularis of the other fide.
The fuperior and inferior tranfverfe branches commu¬
nicate on each fide by branches more or lefs perpendicu¬
lar, and fend a fmall branch to the mufculus quadr^tus
of the chin, to the mufculus cutaneus and integuments.
It fends another large branch anteriorly toward .the
fymphyfis of the lower jaw, which, after having fuppli-
ed the maxillary glands, is diftributed to the digaltric
roufcle, to the chin and under lip,
Interiorly, at the fame place, it fends out a large branch,,
which furnilhes the glandulse fublinguales, runs down to¬
ward the cornua of the os hyoides, to communicate with
fome branches of the jugularis interna, and fends feveral
rami to the tongue, called ven<e ranina. It gives ofT
likewife a fmall branch, which running upon the mufcu¬
lus labiorum triangularis, to the commiffure of the lips,
is diftributed to the neighbouring parts.
The fame branch which gives out the venae raninae,.
detaches another to the lateral paits of the feptum palati,
which is diftributed to the amygdalae, and to the uvula,
and fends rami forward to the membrane -which lines the.
arch of the palate. Another branch goes out from it to-
the pterygoidaeus internus, periftaphylini, and cephalo-
pharyngaei.
Afterwards the trunk of the anterior external jugular
vein runs up on the mufculus triangularis, where it re¬
ceives the name of vena triangularis, in a winding courfe
from the angle of the lower jaw to the great or internal
angle of the orbit, fending branches on each fide to the.
mufcles and integuments.
The trunk of the vena angulans having reached the
bones of the nofe, fends out a branch through the lateral
cartilages of the nofe, which is diftributed to the nares ;
and another which runs down in a winding,eourfe to the
upper lip.
At the great er inner angle of the eye, the fametrvnk.
fends off feveral other branches; the Gift of which go* s
240 A N A T . G M Y. Part IV.
t>o the root of the nofe, and communicating with its fel¬
low from the other fide, gives feveral fmail veins to the
holes of the ofla nafi.
The fecond branch runs up pn the fore-head, by the
name of vena frontalis, and is diftributed to each fide.
The third branch enters the orbit in a winding courfe,
On one fide of the cartilaginous pulley, and communi¬
cates with the finufes of the dura mater, by the orbitary
finus of the eye.
The fourth branch goes along the mufculus fuperci-
Karis and the upper part of the orbicularis, to the fmall
or external angle of the eye, to communicate tvith the
vena temporalis, and with that vein which runs along the
lower part of the orbicular mufcle.
The pofterior or fuperior external jugular vein runs up
toward the parotid gland, and lower anterior part of the
eye, giving out feveral branches toward each fide.
At its origin it fends out pofteriorly, a principal
branch, with its ramifications, to the mufcles which co¬
ver the fcapula and joint of the humerus, commonly
called vena mufcularis.
A little higher, it gives off the vena cervicalis, which
goes to the vertebral mufcles of the neck.
Near the cervical vein, but a little more outward, it
gives off fometimes the fmall vena cephalica, which runs
down between the pedtoralis major and deltoides, and u-
nites with the vena cephalica of the arm.
Backward it detaches the vena occipitalis, which is di-
flributed on the occiput ; it likewife fends out a fmall
vein, which enters the cranium by the po'fterior maftoid
hole, and terminates in one of the later al finufes of the
dura mater.
Having reached as far as the parotid gland, it forms
communications with the anterior externaljugular, under
the angle of the lower jaw; and then pafles through the
parotid gland, between that angle and the condyle, gi¬
ving off a large branch which communicates with ano¬
ther branch common to the internal and anterior external
jugulars.
Afterwards it paffes before the ear, taking the name of
vena temporalis, which is diftribnted to the temples and
lateral parts of the head, towards the occiput and fore¬
head.
The temporal vein of one fide communicates, above,
■with its fellow on the other fide; before, with the vena
frontalis ; and behind, with the vena occipitalis. Oppo-
fite to the ear, it gives out a large branch, one ramus of
which runs under the lower edge of the zygoma, and
then returning, communicates with another ramus from
the fame jugularis, a little below the condyie of the low¬
er jaw.
Behind this condyle, it gives branches to the temporal
xnufcle, to the neighbouring parts of the upper jaw, and
to the infide of the lower jaw.
The internal jugular vein is the large!!: of thofe that
go to the head.
It runs up behind the flerno-maftoidasus and omo-hy-
oidasus, which it croffes, along the fides of the vertebras
of the neck, by the edge of the iongus colli, to the fof-
fuh of the foramen lacerum of the bafis cranii.
The firft branches which it fends off are fmadl, and go
to the thyroid glands. About two fingers breadth high¬
er up, it detaches a middle-fized branch, which runs la¬
terally towards the larynx, and may be named venagut-
turalis.
This guttural vein divides chiefly into three branches;
the loweit of which goes to the thyroid gland and neigh¬
bouring mufcles ; the middle branch to the larynx, mufi-
culi thyroidasi, &c. and the third runs upward to the
great-communication between the two jugulares.
About the fame diltance upward, almolt oppofite to
the os hyoides, the internal jugular gives another branch,
which fends rami to the mulcles belonging to that bone,
and others which communicate with the foregoing branch.
This other branch runs upward toward the parotid gland
and angle of the lower jaw, where it lends communica¬
ting branches forward and backward to the two external
jugulares.
The internal jugular fends another branch backward,
which is dillributed to the occiput, where it communi¬
cates with a branch of the vertebralis, and, through the
pofterior malioid hole, with the lateral finus of the du¬
ra mater.
Afterwards it reaches the foramen lacerum of the ba¬
fis cranii, bending a little, and fending off fmall twigs to
the pharynx and neighbouring mufcles.
The vertebral vein arifes pofteriorly from the fubcla-
via or axillaris, fometimes by two Items.
The firft and principal Item gives out a branch, called
vena cervicalls, which is diltributed to the neighbouring
mufcles, and afterwards runs up through the holes of the '
tranfverfe apophyles of the vertebra colli.
'I he other item of the vertebral vein runs up on the
fide of the vertebra ; and having reached the fourth, or
fometimes higher, it runs in between the tranlverfe apo-
phyfes of that vertebra and the fifth, to join the firft or
principal ftem.
Thus the vertebral vein accompanies the artery of the
fame name, fometimes in one trunk, fometimes in feveral
ftems, through aH the holes of the tranfverle apophyfes of
the vertebra colli, all the way to the great ioramen oc-
cipitale, communicating with the occipital veins and fmall
occipital finufes of the dura mater.
In its paffage it gives off one branch, which enters by
the pofteriox condyloid hole of the os occipitis, and com¬
municates with the lateral finus of the dura mater.
As thefe veins run through the holes in the tranfverfe
appphyfes, they fend branches forward to the anterior
mulcles of the neck, and to the fmall anterior mufcles of
the head.
Other branches go likewife outward and backward to
the mufeuli tranfverfales and vertebrales colli; and in¬
ward to the great canal of the fpinal marrow, where they
form finufes, which communicate with thofe on the other
fide.
Thefe vertebral finufes are pretty numerous, and pla¬
ced one above another all the way to the occiput; the
lower communicate with the upper; and at the great
foramen of the os occipitis there is a communication be¬
tween them and the occipital finufes cf the dura mater.
The fubclavian vein having fent off the branches al¬
ready deferibed, goes out of the thorax, and pafies be¬
fore
Part IV. A N A r
Core the anterior portion of the mufculus fcalenus, and
between the firft rib and the clavicle, to the axilla.
Through this courfe it takes the name of vena axillaris,
and gives off feveral branches, the chief of which are
the venae mufculares, thoracicae, and vena cephalica.
The mufculares, are diftributed to the middle portion
of the mufculus trapezius, to the angularis, infra-fpina-
tus, and fubfcapularis; and as fome of thefe branches
go to the fhoulder exteriorly, others interiorly, the ve¬
nae fcapulares are diftinguifhed into external and internal.
A little before the axillaris reaches the axilla, it fends
out the venae thoracicae, one of which is fuperior, called
alfo mammaria externa, and the other inferior. It like-
wife fends rami to the mufculus fubfcapularis, teres ma¬
jor, teres minor, fupra-fpinatus, latiflimus dorfi, ferra¬
tes major, pe&oralis minor, pedtoralis major, and to the
glands of the axilla.
The axillaris having reached the fide of the head of
the os humeri, produces a branch, named vena cephalica,
and afterwards runs along the arm by the name of vena
bajilica.
The cephalic vein, which is a branch of the axillaris,
at a fmall diftance from its origin, joins the fmall cepha¬
lica, which runs down from the fubclavia, or jugularis
externa.
The great cephalica runs down between the tendons
of the laft mentioned mufcles, and along the outer edge
of the external portion of the biceps; communicating
feveral times with the vena bafilica, and fending fmall
rami on each fide, to the neighbouring mufcles, fat and
Ikin. ,
. A little below the external condyle of the os 'humeri,
it detaches a branch backward, which runs up between
the mufculus brachialis and the upper portion of the fu-
pinator longus, and afterwards bends back between the
os humeri and anconaeus externus, where it communi¬
cates with fome branches of the bafilica.
Having reached very near the fold of the arm, it is
divided into two principal branches, one long, the other
fhort. The long branch is named radialis externa, and
the fhort one may be called mediana cephalica, to diftin-
| guifh it from another mediana, which is a fhort branch
of the bafilica.
The external radial vein runs along the radius between
the mufcles and integuments, giving off branches towards
both fides, which communicate with other branches of
the fame vein, and with fome from the bafilica.
The mediana cephalica runs down obliquely toward
the middle of the fold of the arm, under the integu¬
ments, and over the tendon of the biceps, where it joins
a fhort branch of the fame kind from the bafilica.
From this anaftomofis, a confiderable branch goes out,
which runs down on the fore-arm, uniting on one fide
with the vena cephalica, and communicating on the Ei¬
ther with the bafilica, by feveral irregular areolae. The
name of mediana is given to this large branch, as well
as to the two fbort ones, by the union of which it is
formed.
From this union of the two lateral medians:, and
fometimes from the origin of the mediana media, a
branch goes out, which runs down on the infide.of the
Vol. I. ** No. II. 2
r O M Y. 24r
fore-arm, oppofite to the interroffeous ligament, and is
called vena cubiti profunda. It goes to the neighbour¬
ing mufcles, and communicates with the other veins of
the fore-arm. The mediana cephalica fometimes fends
down a long branch, called radialis interna, which lies
aim off parallel to the radialis externa.
Afterwards the cephalica, having reached the extre¬
mity of the radius, is diflributed, by numerous areoke,
almofl in the fame courfe with the radial artery.
A particular branch goes out from it, which runs more
or lefs fuperficially between the thumb and metacarpus,
by the name of cepbalica pollicis. The areola: furnifh
the interroffeous mufcles and integuments, and commu¬
nicate with a fmall ramus from the bafilica, called by the
ancients Salvatella.
The bafilic vein fends off firft of all, under the head
of the os humeri, a pretty large branch, which paffes al-
molt tranfverfely round the neck of that bone, from
within backward, and from behind outward, running
upon the fcapula, where it is ramified on the dehoides,
and communicates with the venae fcapulares externa?.
This branch may be named vena fub-humeralis, or ar-
ticularis.
This articular vein fends down two principal branches,
one of which runs along the infide of the bone, to which,
and to the perioffeum, it gives fmall veins. The other
turns forward, toward the middle of the arm between
the bone and the biceps, and communicates with the ce¬
phalica.
Below the neck of the os humeri, near the hollow of
the axilla, and behind the tendon of the pedoralis -ma¬
jor, the bafilica fends out a confiderable branch, which
runs down on the fide of the brachial artery, and fur-
nifhes the neighbouring mufcles on both fides. This vein
is named profunda brachii.
Immediately afterwards, the bafilica detaches two or
three fmall veins, which run down very clofely joined to
the brachial artery, furrounding it at different dillances
by fmall twigs which communicate with each other.
Thefe fmall veins, which often arife from the profun-,
da fuperior, communicate with the bafilica and cephalica;
and having reached the fold of the arm, they divide like
the artery; and the fame diviilons are continued along
the whole fore-arm.
Afterwards the bafilica continues its courfe along the in¬
fide of the os humeri, between the mufcles and integuments,
forming many communications with the vena profunda and
cephalica, and fupplying the mufcles and integuments.
Having reached the inner condyle, and having fent off-
obliquely, in the fold of the arm, the mediana bafilica,
it runs along the ulna, between the integuments and muf¬
cles, a little toward the outfide, by the name of cu-bila-
lis externa.
The bafilica having at length reached the extremity of
the ulna, fends feveral branches to the convex fide of
the carpus; one of which, named Salvatella, goes to
that fide of the little finger next the ring finger, having
firft communicated with the cephalica, by means of the
venal areola; confpicuous on the back of the hand. In
the other fingers this vein follows nearly .the fame courfe
with the arteries.
t 3 P
In
In general, the external or fuperficial veins of the fore¬
arm are larger than the internal.
The inferior Vena Cava having run down about a quar¬
ter of an inch from the right auricle of the heart, with¬
in the pericardium, pierces that membrane and the ten¬
dinous portion of the diaphragm.
At this place it gives off the venae diaphragmaticae, or
phrenicre, which are diftributed to the diaphragm, and
appear chiefly on its lower fide, one towards the right
hand, and one towards the left. Tire right vein is more
backward and lower than the left. The left is diftribu-
ted partly to the pericardium, and partly to the dia¬
phragm ; and fometimes they fend rami to the capfulae
renales. .
The inferior cava h iving- perforated the diaphragm,
pafi'es through the pofterior part of the great fiflure of
the liver, penetrating a little into the fubftance of that
vifcus, between the great lobe and the lobulus Spigelii.
In its paflage, itfends off commonly threelarge branches,
called vena hepatic#, which are rami!:ed in the liver.
Befides thefe large branches, it fends out fome other
fmall ones, either before .or immediately after it goes
out of the liver.
In the foetus, as the vena cava pafles by the liver,
it gives off the dudlus venofus, which communicates with
the finus of the vena portae; and in adults is changed to
a flat ligament.
After its paflage through the liver, the vena cava
turns from before backward, and from right to left, to¬
ward the fpina dorfi, placing itfelf on the right fide of
the aorta, v/hich it accompanies from thence downwaid.
Having got as low as the arteriae renales, it gives off
the veins of the fame name, termed formerly vena e-
inulgentet.
The rght renal runs down a little obliquely, becaufe
of the fituation of the kidney. The left vein crofles on
the forefide of the trunk of the aorta, immediately above
the iuperior mefenteric artery.
They fend up the vena: capfnlares, which go to the'
glandulae renales, and downward; the venae adipofae,
which go to the fatty covering of the kidneys; and ordi¬
narily the left renal vein furnilhes the left fpermatic vein.
Afterwards they run to the finus, or cavity of the kid¬
neys, in the fubflance of which they are diftributed by
numerous ramifications.
A little below the renal veins, the trunk of the cava
fends out anteriorly, toward the right fide, the right ve¬
na fpermatica. The left fpermatic vein comes common¬
ly from the left renalis.
In their paflage, they fend feveral fmall branches on
each fide, to the peritonaeum and mefentery, where they
feem to be joined by analiomofes with the venae mefa-
vaicce.
The cava fends likewife off porteriorly the venae Inm-
barts, which commonly arife in pairs. Thefe may be
divided into fuperior and inferior veins.
Their origins vary in different manners. Sometimes
the cava gives off a branch to each fide below' the firft
vertebra of the loins, which, like a common trunk, fur-
niflies the lumbar veins- This branch communicates with
the azygos.
O M Y. Part IV.
Sometimes a confiderable branch goes out from the
lower extremity of the cava, near the bifurcation, chief¬
ly on the right fide, which afterwards running up be¬
tween the bodies and tranfverfe apophyfes of the vertebra,
detaches the vense lumbares, and communicates with the
azygos.
Sometimes a like branch comes from, the beginning of
the left vena iliaca, and, running up on that fide in the
fame manner, produces the lumbares.
The vente lumbares on one fide communicate by tranf¬
verfe branches with thofe of the other fide, and likewife
with each other by branches more or lefs longitudinal.
The firll and fecond often go from the azygos, and'
thereby they communicate with the intercoftal veins.
The lumbar veins fend fmall capillaries, in their paf-
fage, to the fubftance of the bodies of the vertebra ;
and they are diftributed to the mufcles of the abdomen,
quadratus lumborum, pfoas, iliacus, fee. They fend
branches backward to the neighbouring vertebral mufcles,
and to the canal of the fpine, and communicate with the
venal finufes.
The inferior cava, having reached as low as the laft
vertebra of the loins, and near the bifurcation of the
aorta, runs in behind the right iliac artery, and there is
divided into two fubaltern trunks, called the right and
left iliac veins.
From this bifurcation of the vena cava, the vena facra'
goes out, and accompanies the artery of the fame name
in its diftribution to the os facrum, to the nerves which lie
there, and to the membranes which cover both fides of
that bone.
Each original iliac vein is divided on the fide of the os
•facrum, much after the fame manner as the arteries, into
two large trunks.
One of thefe trunks is named vena iliaca externa or
anterior ; the other interna or peferior.
Thefe veins follow nearly the cotlrfe and diftribufiort1
of the iliac arteries, except that the hypogaftric vein does
not fend off the vena umhilicalis.
From the common trunk of the iliac veins, and fome¬
times from the origin of the iliaca externa, a particular
branch goes out, which is diftributed to the mufculus pfoas,
iliacus, and quadratus lumborum ; and afterwards fends''
a ramus on the fore-fide of the laft tranfverfe apophyfis
of the loins, to communicate with the laft lumbar vein.
The externa] iliac, a little before it leaves the abdo- '
men, near the ligamentum Fallopii, lying on the pfoas
and iliac mufcles, gives off almoft the fame branches
with the artery of the fame name, and follows the fame *
courfe. The chief branches are thefe:
A little before it goes out of the abdomen, it fends
off from the outfide, a fmall branch, which runs up a-
long the crifta of the os ilium, and gives branches on
each fide to the lateral and pdfterior lower portions of
the mufeuli abdominis, to the mufculus iliacus, <bc. "
From the infide, before it leaves the abdomen, it fends
off tire vena epigaftrica; which having furniftied feme
fmall rami to the neighbouring conglobated glands, runs
up along the infide of the mufeuli re&i, cn which it is
ramified both, ways-
Afterwards
Part IV. A N A T
Afterwards the vena epigaftrica runs upward, and joins
the ramifications of the mammaria.
Before the iliac vein gets from *under the ligamentum
Fallopii, it fends feveral fmail rami to the neighbouring
lymphatic glands ; and immediately afterwards, lofing
the name of iliaca, it takes that of cruralis.
The hypogaftric, or internal iliac vein, runs behind
the iliac artery, from which the following branches go
out.
From the pofterior or convex part of the arch, it gives
a branch to the fuperior lateral part of the os facrum,
which is dillributed to the mufculus facer, or tranverfo-
fpinalis lumborum, and other mufcles thereabouts, and
to the cavity of the bone, which it enters through the
firlt great hole.
A little lower, on the fam£ fide, it fends out another,
which is dillributed much in the fame manner with the
former, and enters the fecond hole.
From the external lateral part ef the fame arch, a
little anteriorly, it fends out a large branch, which runs
behind the great fciatic finus, and is di/lributed to the muf-
culi glutsei, pyriformis, and gemelli.
Lower down, the fame lateral part of the hypogaftric
vein gives out another large branch, called obturatrix;
which, having run a little way, detaches feveral rami,
and afterwards reaching the foramen ovale of the os in-
nominatum, perforates the obturator muicles, communi¬
cates vdth the vena cruraiis, and is diftributed to the
naufculus pedineus, triceps, and neighbouring parts.
Among the branches fent off by the vena ofcturatrix,:
before it perforates the mufcles, one is fituated exterior¬
ly, which runs toward the fciatic finus, to the mufculus
iliacus, the fuperior part of the obturator internus, and
to the os ilium.
Interiorly, the fame obturator vein . fends off another
branch, which is diftributed to the ureters, bladder, and
internal parts of generation in both fexes.
Laftly, the hypogaftric vein runs backward,, and goes-
out of the pelvis, above the fgament which lies between
the inferior lateral part of the os facrum and fpine of
the ifchium.
It next fends a large'branch upward to the lower part
of the os facrnm, and two or more downward ; which,
running behind the fame ligament, are diftributed to the
buttocks, anus, neighbouring portion of the mufculu^
peclineus, and to the external parts of generation.
The veins that go to the anus, are termed hcsvicrrhoi-
iahs extern*; they that go to the parts of generation,.
fubica internee. The external haemorrhoidales commu¬
nicate with the internal veins of the fame name, which
come from the fmall vena mefaraica.
The crural vein goes out under the ligamentum Fal¬
lopii, on the infide of the crural artery, and immediate¬
ly gives fmall branches to the inguinal glands, the muf¬
culus peAineus, and parts of generation. Thefe kft are
termed ptidicee externee, and evidently communicate with
the internal veins of the fame name.
About an inch below, where it leaves the abdomen,
the crural vein produces a large branch, which runs
down anteriorly between, the integuments and the farto-
O M Y. 243
rius, following the direction of that niufcle almoft all the
way to the infide of the thigh.
This branch having afterwards got beyond the con¬
dyles of the os femoris, runs down between the inte¬
guments and inner angle of the tibia, to the fore-part
of the inner ankle, and is diftributed to the foot. All
this large branch is named vena faphena, or fapkena
major.
After the origin of the faphena, as the trunk of the
crural veins runs down, it finks in between the mufcles,
and is diftributed to all the inner or deep parts of the'
lower extremity, accompanying the crural artery to the
very extremity of the foot.
As the faphena is a vein of very large extent, we
ft)all here deferibe it altogether, and afterwards return
to the vena cruralis.
The vena faphena, in its paffage from the inguen to
the foot, is covered only by the Ikin and fat. Immedi¬
ately after its rife, it gives fmall veins to the inferior in¬
guinal glands; and then it gives out others more anteri¬
orly, which, running under the integuments, commu¬
nicate with each other by numerous areolae.
The faphena, having run down on the thigh, as low
as the middle of the fartorius, fends off to the lame fide
feveral branches, which communicate with each other,
and with the fuperior branches.
Between thefe upper and lower branches, the faphena'
fends backward a particular branch; which, after being,
diftributed to the integuments which cover the gracilis-'
internus end triceps, turns-backward; and a little below
the ham, runs in among the mufcles fituated there, and
communicates with another branch, which may be term¬
ed faphena minor.
Afterwards the trunk of the great faphena runs down
on the infide of the tibia, lying always near the Ikin;
and at the upper part of that bone it fends branches fore¬
ward, outward, and backward.
The anterior branches go to the integuments on the”
upper part of the leg; the poll trior, to thofe which co¬
ver the gaftrocnemii, and communicate v/ith the little .
faphena; and the external branches are likewife diftribu- ■'
ted to the fat and integuments, and having reached as'
low as the middle of the tibia,, it fends a communicating,
branch to the trunk of the great faphena.
From this communication, a branch goes out anterior-'
ly, which runs along the integuments of the tibia all the
way to the outer ankle.
As the faphena runs down on the infide of the tibia,
it fends out a branch near the middle of that bone,-
which runs up behind the tendons of the fartorious, gra¬
cilis internus, and femi-nervofus, then between the tibia
and'upper end of the foleus, and is joined by an anafto- -
mofis with the crural vein.
At the lower part of the tibia,' the faphena produces
a confiderable branch, which runs obliquely forward o-
ver the joint of the tarfus toward the outer ankle, fend- -
ing off ieveral rami which communicate with each other,
and v/ith the trunk of the faphena.
The extremity of this trunk paffes on the forefide o£‘
the inner ankle, and runs irregularly under the Ikin, a-
ANATOMY. Part IV.
l<jng the ioftei :Ucc between the firft two-metatarfal bones
toward the great toe, where this vein terminates.
The hrurai vein, having fent off the faphena, and the
final 1 branches for the peffineus, fac. as has been faid,
runs down on the thigh behind the crural artery. Op*
polite to the little' trochanter, it produces two large
ikort branches, or one which afterwards divides into two,
whereof one is anterior, the other pofterior.
Tiie anterior branch runs more or lefs tranfverfely
fprward, to be diffributed to the vaftus internus,, lower
part of the pedtineus, and of tiie fecond triceps, and to
the other two. mufcles of the fame name, running in be¬
tween them as it goes from one to another.
The pollerior branch runs more cr lefs tranfverfely
backward, and furnilhes the glutaei, vaftus externus, and
beginning of the biceps.
A little below thefe two branches, about the upper ex¬
tremity of the vaftus internus, the crural vein produces a
branch which runs down on the fide of the trunk, co¬
vering the crural artery, almoft as low as the ham, where
it is again united to the trunk by an anaftomofis. It has
the name of vena fciatica, from the fciatic nerve which
it accompanies.
On the outfide of this anaftomofis, the crural vein
gives off a-branch which runs backward between the bi¬
ceps and neighbouring mufcles, and fo downward on the
backlide of the leg a little exteriorly, and very near the
fkin, all the way to the outer ankle. This vein is term¬
ed faphena minor, or externa.
The little faphena, having got near the integuments
in its courfe downward, gives out a branch which runs
backward, and communicates with the great faphena a-
bout the middle of the backfide of the thigh.
Immediately above and below the ham, this vein fends
out other branches, which likewife communicate with
the faphena major, and, having run down about one
third part of the backfide of the tibia, it fends off another
branch, which is afterwards re-united to the trunk.
About the beginning of the tendo-achillis, the little
faphena runs outward in the integuments, toward the
outer ankles, where it terminates in cutaneous ramifica¬
tions fent to every fide.
The crural vein, having detached the little faphena,
runs down between the biceps and the other flexors of
the leg, clofely accompanied by the crural artery, be¬
tween which and the inner condyle of the os femoris it
is fituated.
A .little above the ham, it takes the name of vena po¬
pliteal and as it runs down betwixt the two condyles, it
gives branches to the flexor mufcles, to the lower and
pofterior parts of both vafti, and to the fat which lies a-
bove the interftices of the two condyles.
It likewife gives off feveral other branches., one of
which runs up laterally between the outer condyle and
the biceps, and then turning forward, is ramified in the
fame manner with the artery.
The vena poplitea runs down immediately behind the
mufcle of the fame name, at the lower part of which it
fends off feveral ramifications to each fide, which di¬
vide and unite again in different ways; and afterwards it
iofes its name, being divided into three confider,able
branches, called tibialis anterior, tibialis pojlerior, and
per once a.
The anterior tibial vein, having diftributed fome fmall
branches from its very beginning to the mufcles behind
the heads of the two bones of the leg, perforates the in-
terofleous ligament from behind, forward, and runs be¬
tween the fuperior portions of the mufculus tibialis anti-
cus, and extenfor digitorum communis.
As foon as it pierces the interofleous ligament, it di-
ftributes fmall fuperficial branches to the head of the ti¬
bia and fibula, which run to the joint of the knee, and
communicate with the lateral branches of the vena po¬
plitea.
Afterwards it divides Into two or three branches,
which run down together on the forefide of the interof-
feous ligament in company with the anterior tibial arte¬
ry, which they furround at different diftances, by fmall
communicating circles.
Thefe branches having reached the lower extremity of
the leg, unite in one, which afterwards divides into feve¬
ral, the ramifications of which are diftributed to the foot.
The pofterior tibial vein gives off, from its beginning,
a branch toward the infide, which is diftributed to the
gaftrocnemii and foleus. This vein is named, furalis.
Afterwards the pofterior tibialis runs down between
the foleus and tibialis pofticus, giving branches to each
of them. It is divided in the fame manner as the tibi¬
alis anterior, into two or three branches, which, as
they run, furround the correfponding artery, by fmali
communicating circles formed at different diftances.
It continues this courfe in company with the artery as
low as the outer ankle, furnilhing the mufculus tibialis
pofticus, and the long flexors of the toes.
Laftly, it paffes on the infide of the os calcis, under r
the foie of the foot, where it forms the venas plantares,
by dividing into feveral tranfverfe arches, which commu¬
nicate with each other, and with the faphena, and fend
ramifications to the toes.
The vena peronaea is likewife double, and fometimes'
triple. It runs down on the infide of the fibula, which*
it likewife furrounds at different diftances, by communi-»
eating branches, after the manner of the tibialis pofterior.
It runs down as low as the outer ankle, communicating >
feveral times with the tibialis pofterior, and lending rami- ’
fications to the neighbouring portions of the mufeuli pe- *
ronaei, and long flexors of the toes.
The vena portae is a large vein, the trunk of which is
finsated chiefly between the eminencies on the lower or.
concave fide of the liver.
It may be confidered as made up of two large veins, <
joined almoft endwife by their trunks, from each of'
which the branches and ramifications go out in oppofite
direftions. One of thefe trunks adheres to the liver, ’
and is ramified in that vifeus, its branches accompanying1
the whole diftribution of the hepatic artery.
The other trunk is without the liver, and fends its
branches to the vifeera, fupplied by the reft of the arte-1
ria casliaca, and by the two mefentericas, that is, to the
ftomach, inteftines, pancreas, fpleen, mefentery, and o-«
mentum.
The firft portion of this vein may be termed vena
portce
Part IV. ANA
port# hepatica, juperior or minor, the trunk of which
is commonly known by the name of Jinus vena porta-
rum. The other portion may be called vena porta ven-
tralis, inferior or major.
The large trunk of the vena port® inferior, or ventra-
Ks, is fituated under the lower or concave fide of the li¬
ver, and joined by an anafiomofis to the finus of the vena
port® hepatica, between the middle and right extremity
of that finus. From thence it runs down a little oblique¬
ly from right to left, behind or under the trunk of the
arteria hepatica, bending behind the beginning of the du¬
odenum, and under the head of the pancreas.
Having reached to the head of the pancreas, this trunk
lofes the general name of vena porta, and terminates in
three large principal branches, which are dillributed, by
numerous ramifications, to the vifcera already named.
The firft branch is termed vena mefaraica, or mefaraica
major-, the fecond, fplenica; and the third, hamorrhoi-
dalis interna, or mefaraica minor.
The vena mefaraica major appears to be a continuation
of the trunk of the vena port® inferior. The fplenica
is a capital branch of that trunk ; and the h®morrhoi-
dalis interna has fometimes a common origin with the
fplenica.
The inferior vena port®, before the formation of thefe
three branches, fends off from the trunk feveral fmall
rami, which are commonly the ven® cyftic®, hepatica
minor, pylorica, duodenalis, and fometimes the gaftrica
reft a, and coronaria ventriculi.
All thefe fmall veins lometimes arife feparately; and,
in other fubjefts, fome of them go out by fmall common
trunks.
The cyftic veins run along the veficula fellis, from its
neck to the bottom ; and as they are often no more than
two in number, they are called cyjiica gemella.
The fmall hepatic vein is commonly a branch of one
of the cyftic®.
The vena pylorica arifes from the great trunk, almoft
oppofite to the origin of the cyftic®; and fometimes is
only a branch of the right gaftrica. It pafles over the
pylorus to the ftiort arch of the ftomach, where it is
joined, by anaftomofis, with the coronaria ventriculi.
The duodenal vein, commonly called vena intefinaLis,
goes out from the great trunk near the cyftic®, and fome¬
times from the fmall common trunk of thefe veins. It
is diftributed chiefly to the inteftinum duodenum, and
fends likewife fome rami to the pancreas.
The inferior vena port®, having given off the fplenica,
changes its name to that of viefaraica, or mefaraica ma¬
jor-, which often appears to be rather a continuation of
the trunk, than of one of the great branches.
It bends toward the fuperior mefenteric artery, fend¬
ing off two veins, and afterwards running up over that
artery, it accompanies it in thofe portions of the mefen-
tery and mefocolon which belong to the fmall inteftines,
the c®cum, and right portion of the colon.
The firft particular branch from this trunk is called
vena colica. It goes out from the anterior part of the
trunk, before it joins the artery, and runs direftly to the
middle of the colon, where it divides to the right and left,
and forms arches. On the left hand, it communicates
- Vol. I. No. ii. 3
T O M Y. 245
with the fuperior or afcending branch of the h®morrhoi-
dalis; and on the right, with the fecond branch of the
mefaraica.
This fecond branch is a little under the firft, or colica
anterior, and fomething more towards the right hand.
It may be named gajiro-colica, and is foon divided into
two branches, one fuperior, the other inferior.
The fuperior branch of the vena gaftro-colica fends
fmall veins to the head of the pancreas, and forms the
vena gaftrica, or gaftro-epiploica dextra, which goes
from the pylorus to the great curvature of the ftomach,
and communicates with the gaftrica finiftra. In its paf-
fage it fupplies the ftomach and omentum, and commu¬
nicates with the pylorica, coronaria ventriculi, fac.
The inferior branch of the vena gaftro-coHca, which
may be called colica dextra, goes to the right portion of
the colon ; and from thence to the upper part of that in-
teftine, where it is divided archwife, and communicates
with the right branch of the colica anterior, and with a
branch of the vena c®calis.
The trunk of the great mefaraic vein fends out fome¬
times, oppofite to the gaftrica, a particular branch to the
omentum, called epiploica dextra. But almoft imme¬
diately before it afeends over the mefenteric artery, it
produces two large branches very near each other, which!
pafs behind and under the artery, being diftributed to
the jejunum and part of the ilium by numerous ramifi¬
cations.
Afterwards the trunk of the mefaraic pafles over the
fuperior mefenteric artery, to w'hich it adheres very clofe-
ly, and from the convex fide of its arch fends out feve¬
ral branches, almoft in the fame manner with the artery.-
From the concave fide of the mefaraic vein, a little
below the origin of the fecond branch, from the convex
fide, arifes a branch, called vena cacalis, which runs to
the beginning of the colon, crofling one of the branches
of the fuperior mefenteric artery.
This c®cal vein divides by two arches, the uppermpft
of which communicates with the lower branch of the ve¬
na gaftro-colica; the other, after having fent ramifica¬
tions to the inteftinum c®cum and appendicula vermifor-
mis, communicates below with the extremity of fire
great mefaraic vein.
The fplenic vein is one of the three great branches.of
the vena port®. It runs tranfverfely from the right,to
the left, firft under the duodenum, and then along the
lower fide of the pancreas.
In this couffe it gives off feveral veins, viz. the vena
coronaria ventriculi, pancreatic®, gaftrica, or gaftro-epi¬
ploica finiftra, and .epiploica finiftra. It likewife often
gives origin to the h®morrhoidalis interna, the third
capital branch of the vena port®.
It terminates afterwards by a winding coprfe, being
divided into feveral branches that go to the fpleen ; one
of which produces the fmall veins called, by the ancients,
vafa hrevia.
The coronaria ventriculi runs along the fmall arch of
that vifeus toward the pylorus, where it joins and be¬
comes continuous with the vena pylorica. In its palfage,
it gives feveral rami to the fides of the ftomach.
The ven® pancreatic® are feveral fmall branches
t 5 &nt
246 A N A 1
fent by the fplenica to the pancreas, along its lower
fide.
The left gafiric, or gaftro-epiploic vein, goes out from
the fpleiiica, at the left extremity of the pancreas ; from
whence it runs to the great extremity of the ftomnch,
and along the great arch, till it meets the gadrica dex-
tra, which is continuous with the finiftra.
In its paflage, it gives feveral branches to both fides of
the ftomach, which are diftributed by numerous ramifica¬
tions, form many areolae, and communicate with the
branches of the coronaria ventriculi.
At a fmall diftance from its origin, this gaftric vein
fends out a branch, which is diftributed to the omen¬
tum ; and on this account it has been called gajlro cpi-
ploica.
The vena epiploica finiftra arifes at the fmall extremi¬
ty of the pancreas, and is ramified on the omentum, ail
the way to the colon, where it communicates with the
htemorrhoidalis interna.
Laftly, the vena fplenica reaches the fiffure of the
fpleen, which it enters through its whole length by feveral
branches. It is from the moft pofterior of thefe branches
that the veins are fent off to the great extremity of the
ftomach, formerly known by the name of vafa brevia,
which communicate with the coronaria ventriculi and ga-
ftrica finiftra.
EXPLANATION
This plate reprefents the heart in fitu, all the large ar¬
teries and veins, with fome of the mufeles, <bc.
Muscues.—Superior Extremity. — a, Maffeter.
b, Corrtplexus. c, I>iagaftricus. d, Os hyoides.
e. Thyroid gland, f, Levator fcapuke. g, Cucul-
laris. h h, The clavicles cut. i, The deltoid muf-
cle. k, Biceps flexor cubiti cut. 1, Coraco-brachi-
alis. m, Triceps extenfor, cubiti. n, The heads of
the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, and flexor di-
gitorum fublimis,. cut. o, The flexor carpi ulnaris,
cut at its extremity, p, Flexor digitorum profundus,
cj, Supinator radii longus, cut at its extremity, r, Li-
gamemum carpi tranfverfale. s, Extenfores carpi ra-
diales. t, Latiflimus dorfi. u, Anterior edge of the
ferratus anticus major, v, v, The inferior part of
the diaphragm, w w. Its anterior edge cut. x x. The
kidneys, y, Tranfverfus abdominis, z, Os ilium.
Inferior Extremity.—a, Pfoas magnus. b, I-
Hacus internus. <y The fleihy origin of the tenfor
vaginae femoris. d d. The offa pubis cut from each
other, e, Mufculus peftineus cut from its origin.
f. Short head of the triceps adduAor femoris cut.
g. The great head of the triceps. h> The long head
cut. /, Vaftus internus. k, Vaftus externus. /, Cru-
reus. m. Gemellus. », Soleus. 0, Tibia. />, Pe-
ronaeus longus. y, Peronaeus brevis, r. Fibula.
Heart and Blood-Vessels.—A, The heart,
with the coronary arteries and veins. B, The right
auricle of the heart. C, The aorta afcendens.
D, The left fubclavian artery. E, The left carotid
artery. F, The common trunk which fends off the
O M Y. Part IV.
The internal hasmorrhoidal vein is one of the three
great branches of the vena portae, coming ordinarily from
the beginning of the vena fplenica, and fometimes from
the extremity or angle of the bifurcation of the great
trunk of the vena portae.
At a fmall diftance from its b eginning, it gives to die
duodenum a fecond vena duodenalis.
Afterwards it is divided into two branches, one fupe-
rior or afcending, the other inferior or defcending. The
firft runs to the upper part of the arch of the colon,
where, after many ramifications, it communicates with a
branch of the great mefaraica, with the ramifications of
the gaftro-epiploica finiftra, and with thofe of the neigh¬
bouring epiploica.
The inferior branch runs down on the left portion of
the colon, on the lower incurvations of that inteftine,
and on the return, all the way to the anus. In this
courfe, it fupplies the mefocolon, and forms arches, which
fend out numerous fmall ramifications, which furround
thefe inteftines.
This vein has been named hcemorrhoidalis, from the
tumours often found at its extremity next the anus, which
are called hamorrhoides. The word interna is added,
to diftinguifh this vein from the hsemorrhoidalis externa,
which comes from the vena hypogaftrica, and with which
this vein communicates by capillary ramifications.
of PLATE XVII.
right fubclavian and right carotid arteries. G, The
carotis externa. H, Arteria facialis, which fends off
the coronary arteries of the lips. I, Arteria tem¬
poralis profunda. K, Aorta defcendens. L L, The
iliac arteries,—which fend off M M, The femoral
or crural arteries. N. B. The other arteries in this
figure have the fame diftribution as the veins of the
fame name :—And generally, in the anatomical plates,
the defcription to be found on the one fide, points out
the fame parts in the other. 1, The frontal vein.
2, The facial vein. 3, Vena temporalis profunda.
4, Vena occipitalis. 5, Vena jugularis externa.
6, Vena jugularis interna, covering the arteria ca¬
rotis communis. 7, The vafcular arch on the palm
of the hand, which is formed by 8, the radial ar¬
tery and vein, and 9, the ulnar artery and vein.
10 10, Cephalic vein. 11, Bafilic vein, that on
the right fide, cut. 12, Median vein. 13, The
humeral vein, which, with the median, covers the
humeral artery. 14 14* The external thoracic, or
mammary arteries and veins. 15, The axillary vein,
covering the artery. 16 16, The fubclavian veins,
which, with (6 6) the jugulars, forms 17, the ve¬
na cava fuperior. 18, The cutaneous arch of veins
on the fore-part of the foot. 19, The vena tibialis
antica, covering the artery. 20, The vena profunda
femoris, covering the artery. 21, The upper part of
the vena fapliena major. 22, The femoral vein.
23 23, The iliac veins. 24, 24, Vena cava inferior.
25 2j, The renal veins covering the arteries.
26 26, The diaphragmatic veins.
PART
Plate X^IE
f Setc/f
Part V. ANATOMY. 247
PART V.
OF THE NERVES.
Sect. I. Of the Nerves in general.
THE medullary fubftance of the brain is employed
in forming the white fibrous cords, which are
called nerves. Within the flcull we fee the nerves to be
the medullary fubftance continued; and the fpinal mar¬
row is all employed in forming nerves.
The nerves are compofed of a great many threads,
lying parallel to eaeh other, or nearly fo, at their exit
from the medulla.
This fibrous texture is evident at the origin of moft
of the nerves within the fkull; and in the cauda equina
of the fpinal marrow we can divide them into fuch fmall
threads, that a very good eye can fcarce perceive them;
but thefe threads, when looked at with a microfcope,
appear each to be compofed of a great number of fmaller
threads.
How fmall one of thefe fibrils of the nerves is, we
know not; but when we confider that every, even the
moft minute part of the body is fenfible, and that this
muft depend on the nerves, (which all conjoined would
not make a cord of an inch diameter), being divided in¬
to branches or filaments to be difperfed through all thefe
minute parts, we muft be convinced, that the nervous
fibrils ere very fmall.
The medullary fubftance, of which the nervous fibrils
are compofed, is very tender, and would not be able to
refill fuch forces as the nerves are expofed to within the
bones, nor even the common force of the circulating
fluids, were not the pia mater and tunica arachnoides
continued upon them; the former giving them firmnefs
and ftrength, and the latter furniftiing a cellular coat to
conned the thieads of the nerves, to let them lie foft
and moift, and to fupport the veflels which go with them.
It is this cellular fubftance that is diftended when air
is forced through a blow-pipe thruft into a nerve, and
that makes a nerve appear all fpongy, after being diftend¬
ed with air till it dries ; the proper nervous fibrils ftirivel-
ing fo in drying, that they fcarce can be obferved.
Thefe coats would not make the nerves ftrong enough
to bear the ftretching and prefllire they are expofed to in
their courfe to the different parts of the body ; and there¬
fore, where the nerves go out at the holes in the cranium
and fpine, the dura mater is generally wrapt clofely round
them, to colled their difgregated fibres into tight firm
cords ; and that the tenfion which they may happen to
be jcxpofed to may not injure them before they have got
this additional coat, it is firmly fixed to the fides of the
holes in the bones through which they pafs.
The nervous cords, thus compofed of nervous fibrils,
cellular coat, pia and dura mater, have fuch numerous
blood-veffels, that, after their arteries only are injeded,
the whole cord is tinged of the colour of the injeded
liquor.
A nervous cord has very little elafticity, compared
with feveral other parts of the body. When cut out of
the body, it does not become obfervably (hotter, while
the blood-veffels contrad three eighths of their length.
Nerves are generally lodged in a cellular or fatty fub¬
ftance, and have their courfe in the interftices of mufcles,
where they are guarded from preflure; but in feveral
parts they are fo placed, as if it was intended that they
(hould there fuffer the vibrating force of arteries, or the
prefiure of the contrading fibres of mufcles.
The larger cords of the nerves divide into branches as
they go off to the different parts; the branches being
fmaller than the trunk from which they come, and ma¬
king generally an acute angle where they feparate.
In feveral places, different nerves unite into one cord,
which is commonly larger than any of the nerves which
form it. Several nerves, particularly thofe which are di-
ftributed to the bowels, after fuch union, fuddenly form
a hard knot ccnfiderably larger than all the nerves of
which it is made. Thefe knots were formerly called
corpora olivaria, and are now generally named ganglions.
The ganglions have thicker ccats, more numerous and
larger blood-veffels than the nerves ; fo that they appear
more red and mufcular.
Commonly numerous fmall nerves, which conjundly
are not equal to the fize of the ganglion, are fent out
from it, but with a ftrudure no way different from that
of other nerves.
The nerves fent to the organs of the fenfes, lofe there
their firm coats, and terminate in a pulpy fubftance. The
optic nerves are expanded into the foft tender webs, the
retinae. The auditory nerve has fcarce the confidence of
mucus in the veftibulum, cochlea, and femicircular ca¬
nals of each ear. The papilla: of the nofe, tongue, and
fkin, are very foft.
The nerves of mufcles can likewife be traced till they
feem to lofe their coats by becoming very foft; from
which, and what we obferved of the fenfatory nerves,
there is reafon to conclude, that the mufcular nerves are
alfo pulpy at their terminations, which we cannot indeed
profecute by diffeftion.
Sect.
248 A N A T
Sect. IT. Of the particular Nerves.
It is generally faid, that there are forty pair of
nerves in all; of which ten come out from the encepha¬
lon, and the other thirty have their origin from the
fpinal marrow.
Of the ten pair of nerves which come from the ence¬
phalon, the firjl is the Olfactory, which have their
origin from the corpora ilriata, near the part where the
internal carotid arteries are about to fend off their branches
to the different parts of the brain; and in their courfe
under the anterior lobes of the brain, which have each a
depreflion made for lodging them, become larger, till
they are extended to the cribriform bone; where they
fplit into a great number of fmall filaments, to pafs
through the little holes in that bone; and being joined
by a branch of the fifth pair of nerves, are fpread on the
membrane of the nofe.
The tender ftru&ure and fudden expanfion of thefe
nerves on fuch a large furface, render it impoffible to
trace them far; which has made fome authors deny them
to be nerves: But when we break the circumference of
the cribriform lamella, and then gently raife it, we may
fee the dillribution of the nerves fome way on the mem¬
brane of the nofe.
The contrivance of defending thefe long foft nerves
from being too much preffed by the anterior lobes of the
brain under which they lie, is Angular; becaufe they
have not only the prominent orbitar proceffes of the
frontal bone to fupport the brain on each fide, with the
veins going into the longitudinal finus, and other at¬
tachments bearing it up, but there is a groove formed in
each lobe of the brain itfelf for them to lodge in—Their
fplitting into fo many fmall branches before they enter
the bones of the fkull, is likewife peculiar to them ; for
generally the nerves come from the brain in difgregated
filaments, and unite into cords, as they are going out at
the holes of the bones. This contrivance is the belt for
anfwering the purpofe they are defigned for, of being the
organ of fmelling; for had they been expanded upon the
membrane of the nofe into a medullary web, fuch as the
optic nerve forms, it would have been too fenfible to
bear the imprellions of fuch objects as are applied to the
nofe; .and a diftribution in the more common way, of a
cord fending off branches, would not have been equal
enough for fuch an organ of fenfation.
The fecond pair of nerves, the Optic, riling from
the thalami nervorum opticorum, make a large curve out-
v'ards, and then run obliquely inwards and forwards,
till they unite at the fore-part of the fella turcica; then
foon divide, and each runs obliquely forwards and out¬
wards to go out at its proper hole in the fphenoid bone,
accompanied with the ocular artery, to be extended to
the globe of the eye, within which each is expanded into
a very fine cuplike web, that lines all the inlide of the
eye as far forwards, as the ciliary circle, and is univer-
fally known by the name of Retina.
Though the fubftance of this pair of nerves feems to
be blended at the place where they are joined; yet ob-
fervations of people whofe optic nerves were not joined,
and of others who were blind of one eye from a fault in
O M Y. Part V.
the optic nerve, or in thofe who had one of their eyes
taken out, make it appear, that there is no fuch intimate
union of fubftance; the optic nerve of the affedted fide
only being wafted, while the other was large and plump.
And the fame obfervations are contradictory to the doc¬
trine of a decuffation of all the nerves, for the difeafe
could be traced from the affedted eye to the origin of the
nerve on the fame fide.
Thefe people whofe optic nerves were not joined, ha¬
ving neither feen objedts -double, nor turned their eyes
different ways, is alfo a plain proof, that the conjundtion
of the optic nerves will not ferve to account for either
the uniform motions of our eyes, or our feeing objedts
fingle with two eyes.
The retina of a recent eye, without any preparation,
appears a very fine web, with fome blood-veffels coming
from its center to be diftributed on it; but, after a good
injedtion of the arteries that run in the fubftance of this
nerve, as is common to other nerves, it is with difficul¬
ty that we can obferve its nervous medullary fubftance;
—The fituation of thefe veffels in the central part of the
optic nerve, the want of medullary fibres here, and the
firmnefs of this nerve before it is expanded at its entry
into the ball of the eye, may be the reafon why we do
not fee fuch bodies, or parts of bodies, whofe pidhire
falls on this central part of the retina.
The Third Pair rife from the anterior part of the
proceffus annularis, and piercing the dura mater a little
before, and to a fide of the ends of the pofterior clinoid
procefs of the fphenoid bone, run along the receptacula,
or cavernous finufes, at the fide of the ephippium, to
get out at the foramina lacera; after which each of them
divides into branches, of which one, after forming a
little ganglion, is diftributed to the globe of the eye; the
others are fent to the mufculus redtus of the palpebra,
and to the attollens, addudfor, deprimens, and obliquus
minor mufcles of the eye-ball. Thefe mufcles being princi¬
pal inftruments in the motions of the eye-lid and eye-ball/
this nerve has therefore got the name of the Motor O-
CULi.
TheFo-URTH Pair, which are the fmalleft nerves of
any, derive their origin from the back-part of the bafe of
the teftes; and then making a long courfe on the fide of
the annular protuberance enter the dura mater a little far¬
ther back, and more externally than the third part, to run
alfo along the receptacula, to pafs out at the foramina la¬
cera, and to be entirely fpenton the mufculi trochleares,
or fuperior oblique mufcles of the eyes. Thefe muf->
cles being employed in performing the rotatory motions,
and the advancement of the eye-balls forward, by
which feveral of our paffions are expreffed, the nerves
that ferve them have got the name of Pathetici. '
The Fifth Pair are large nerves, riling from the
annular proceffes where the medullary proceffes of the
cerebellum join in the formation of that tuber, to enter
the dura mater near the point of the petrous procefs of the
-temporal bones; and then finking clofebythe receptacula
at the fides of the fella turcica, each becomes in appearance ■
thicker, and goes out of thelkull in three great branches.'
The firft branch of the fifth is the Ophthalmic.,
which runs through the foramen lacerum, to the orbit,'
having
Part V. A N A T
having in its paffage thither a connexion with the fixth
pair. It is afterwards diftributed to the ball of the eye
with the third; to the nofe, along with the olfadtory,
which the branch of the fifth that paffes through the fora¬
men orbitarium internum joins, as was already mention¬
ed in the defcription of the firft pair. This ophthalmic
branch likewife fupplies the parts at the internal canthus
of the orbit, the glandula lacrymalis, fat, membranes,
mufcles, and teguments of the eye-lids; its longeft far-
thefl: extended branch palling through the foramen fupperci-
liare of the os frontis, to be diltributed to the forehead.
The fecond branch of the fifth pair of nerves may be
called Maxillaris Superior, from its ferving princi¬
pally the parts of the upper jaw. It goes out at the
round hole of the fphenoid bone, and fends immediately
one branch into the channel on the top of the antrum maxil-
lare ; the membrane of which and the upper teeth are fup-
plied by it in its palfage. As this branch is about to g,o out
at the foramen orbitarium externum, it fends a nerve
through the fubftance of the os maxillare to come out at
Steno’s dudt, to be diftributed to the fore-part of the palate;
and what remains of it efcaping at the external orbitar
hole, divides into a great many branches, that fupply the
cheek, upper lip, and noftril. The next confiderable
branch of the fuperior maxillary nerve, after giving
branches which are refledted through the fixth hole of the
fphenoid bone, to join the intercoftal where it is palling
through the Ikull with the carotid artery, and the portio
dura of the feventh pair, as it pafles through the os pe-
trofum, is fent into the nofe by the hole common to the
palate and fphenoidal bone; and the remaining part of
this nerve runs in the palato-maxillaris canal, giving off
branches to the temples and pterygoid mufcles, and
comes at laft into the palate to be loft.
The third or Maxillaris Inferior branch of the
fifth pair going out at the oval hole of the fphenoid bene,
ferves the mulcles of the lower jaw, and the mufcles fi-
tuated between the os hyoides and jaw: All the falivary
glands, the amygdalae, and the external ear, have
branches from it: It has a large branch loft in the tongue,
and fends another through the canal in the fubftance of
the lower jaw to ferve all the teeth there, and to come
out at the hole in the fore-part of the jaw, to be loft in
the chin and under lip.
The Sixth Pair, which is the fmalleft except the
fourth, rifes from the fore-part of the corpora pyrami-
dalia; and each entering the dura mater fome way behind
the pofterior clinoid procefs of the fpenoid bone, has a
long courfe below that membrane, and within the recep-
taculum at the fide of the fella turcica, where it is im-
merfed in the blood of the receptacle: It goes afterwards
out at the foramen lacerum into the orbit, to ferve the
abduftor mufcle of the eye.—A defied!: in this nerve may
therefore be one caufe of a ftrabifmus.—In the paftage
of this nerve below the dura mater, it lies very conti¬
guous to the internal carotid artery, and to the ophthal¬
mic branch of the fifth pair of nerves. At the place
where the fixth pair is contiguous to the carotid, a nerve
either goes from each of them in an uncommon way, to.
wit, with the angle beyond where it rifes obttife, to de-
feend with the artery, and to form the beginning of the
Vol.F. No. ii. 3
O M Y. 249
intercoftal nerve, according to the common defcrip¬
tion ; or, according to other authors, this nerve comes
up from the great ganglion of the intercoftal, to bejoined
to the fixth here.
The Seventh Pair comes out from the lateral part
of the annular procefs behind where the medullary pro¬
cefs of the cerebellum are joined to that tuber; and each
being accompanied with a larger artery than moft other
nerves, enters the internal meatus auditorius, where the
two large bundles of fibres, of which it appeared to
confift within the flcull, foon feparate from each other;
one of them entering by feveral fmall holes into the vefti-
ble, cochlea, and femicircular canals, is ftretehed on this
inner camera of the ear in a very foft pulpy fubftance;
and being never feen in the form of a firm cord, fuch as
the other parcel of this and moft other nerves become, is
called Portio Mollis of the auditory nerve.
The other part of this feventh pair paftes through Ga¬
len’s foramen caecum, or Fallopius’s aquaedudt, in its
crooked paflage by the fide of the tympanum ; in which paf-
fage, a nerve fent from the lingual branch of the inferior
maxillary nerve, along the outfide of the tuba Eufta-
chiana, and crofs the cavity of the tympanum, where it
has the name of chorda tympani, is commonly faid to be
joined to it. The very acute angle which this nerve
makes with the fifth, or the fudden violent refleftion it
would fuffer on the fuppofition of its coming from the
fifth to the feventh, appears unufual; whereas, if we
fuppofe that it comes from the feventh to the fifth, its
courfe would be more in the ordinary way, and the chor¬
da tympani would be efteemed a branch of the feventh
pair going to join the fifth, the fize of which is increa-
fed by this acquifition. This fmaller bundle of the
feventh gives branches to the mufcles of the malleus, and
to the dura mater, while it pafi’es through the bony
crooked canal, and at laft comes out. in a firm chord
named Portio Dura, at the end of this canal, be¬
tween the ftyloid and maftoid procefies of the temporal
bone, giving immediately filaments to the little oblique
mufcles of the head, and to thofe that rife from the ftyloid
procefs. It then pierces through the parotid gland, and
divides into a great many branches, which are difperfed
in the mufcles and teguments that cover all the fide of
the upper part of the neck, the whole face and cranium, as
far back as the temples, including a confiderable part of
the external ear.
The Eighth Pair of nerves rife from the lateral-
bafesof the corporaolivaria in difgregated fibres; and as
they are entering the anterior internal part of the holes
common to the os occipitis and temporum, each is joined
by a nerve which afeends within the dura mater from the
tenth of the head, the firit, fecond and inferior cervical
nerves : This every body knows has the name of the Ne r-
vus Accessorius. When the two get out of thefkull,
the accefl’orius feparates from the eighth, and, defeend-
ing obliquely outwards, paffes through the fterno-maftoi-
deus mulcle, to which it gives branches, and afterwards
terminates in the trapezius and rhomboid mufcles of the
fcapula. In this courfe it is generally more or lels join¬
ed by the fecond cervical nerve.
The large Eighth Pair, foon after its exitj gives
t 3 ft nerves
250 A N A T
nerves to the tongue; larynx, pharynx, and ganglion of
the intercolHl nerve, and being disjoined from the ninth
and intercolial, to which it adheres clofely fome way,
runs ftreight down the neck behind the internal jugular
vein, and at the external lide of the carotid artery. As
iris about to enter the thorax, a large nerve goes off from
the eigiit of each fide: This branch of the right-fide
turns round from the fore to the back part of the iubclar
vian artery, while the branch of the left-fide turns round
the great curve of the aorta •, and both of them mounting
up again at the'] de of the cefophagus, to which, they
give brandies, are loll at laft in the larynx. Thefe are
called the Recurrent nerves, which we are defired to
fliun in the operation of bronchotomy, though their deep
lltuation protefts them fufficiently.
The eighth pair, above, and at or near the place where
the recurrent nerves go off from it, or frequently the
reem rents themfelves, fend off fmall nerves to the peri¬
cardium, and to join with the branches of the intercollal
that are diftributed to the heart; but their fize and fi-
tuation are uncertain.
After thefe branches are fent off, the par vagum on-
each fide defeends behind the great branch of the trachea,
and gives numerous filaments to the lungs, and fome to
the heart in going to the cefophagus. The one of the
left-fide running on the fore-part of the cefophagus, com¬
municates by leveral branches with the right one in its
defcent to be diftributed to the ftomach : The right one
gets behind the oefophagus, where it fplits and rejoins fe-
veral times before it arrives at the llomach, to which it
fends nerves; and then being joined by one or more
branches from the left tnunk, they run towards the caeliac
artery, there to join into the great femilunar ganglion
fbrmed by the two intercollals.
The Ninth Pair of. nerves comes from the inferior
part of the corpora pyramidalia,. to go our of the Ikull
at their proper holes of the occipital bone. After their
egrefs they adhere for fome way firmly to the eighth and
intercoftal; and then fending a branch, that in many
liibjefts is joined with branches of the firft and fecondi
otrvical nerves, to be diftributed to the thyroid gland andi
mufcles on the fore-part of the trachea arteria, the ninth
is loft in the mufcles and fubftance of the tongue.
The Tenth Pai>r rifes in feparate threads from the
fides of the fpinaf marrow, to go out between the os oc-
cipitis and firft vertebra of the neck. After each, of
them has given branches to the great ganglion ofl the in¬
tercoftal, 8th, 9th, and ift cervical nerves, it is diftri-
tiuted to the ftreight, oblique, and fome of the extenfor
mufcles of the head.
The branch reflected from the fixth pair, joined poffi-
bly by fome filaments of the opththalmic branch of the
fifth, runs along with the internal carotid artery,, through
the crooked canal formed for it in the temporal bone, where
the little nerve is very foft and pappy, and in feveral
fubjefts divides and unites again, and is joined by one or
more branches-from the fifth particularly of its fuperior
maxillary branch, before it comes out of the Ikull. As:
foon as the nerve efcapes out of this bony canal, it is
connected a little way with the eighth and ninth; then
fisparating from thefe, after feeming. to receive addition-.
O Ivr Y. Pare V.
al nerves from them, it forms a large ganglion, into1
which branches from the tenth of the head, and from tfie
firft: andfecond cervical, enter. From this gangiion the
nerves come out again fmall, to run down the neck along
with the carotid artery, communicating by branches- with
the cervical nerves,. and giving nerves to the mufcles that
bend the head and neck. As the intercoftal is about to
enter die thorax, it forms another gangKon, from which
nerves are lent to the trachea- and to the heart; thefe
defigned for the heart joining with the branches of the
eighth, and moft: of them palling between the two great-
arteries and the auricles, to the fubftance of that' mufcle.
The intercoftal after this conlifting of two> branches, one
going behind, and the other running Over the fore-purt ofi
the fubclavian artery, forms- a new ganglion- where the
two branches unite below that artery, and- then defeend-
ing along the fides of the vertebra; of the thorax, re¬
ceive^ branches from each of the dorfal nerves; which
branches appearing to come out between the ribs, have
given the name of intercoftal to the whole nerve. Where
the addition is made to it from the fifth dorfal nerve, ar
branch goes off obliquely forewards ; which being joined1
by fuch branches from the fixth, feventh, eighth, and
ninth dorfal, an anterior trunk is formed, and pa/fes be¬
tween the fibres of die appendix mufculofa of- the dia¬
phragm, to form, along with- the other intercoftal and1
the branches of the eighth pair, a large femilunar gan*-
glion fituated between the cariiac and luperior mefenteric
arteries ; the roots of which are as it were involved in a-
fort of nervous net-work of this ganglion, from which ar
great number of very fmall nervous threads run out to.
be extended on the fur face of all the branches of thole-
two arteries, fo as to be eafil'y feen when any of the
arteries are ftretched, but not to be raifed from
them by difle&ion; and thus the liver, gall-bladder,
duodenum, pancreas, fpleen, jejunum, ilium, and a large
Ihareofthe colon, have their nerves fent from this great
folar ganglion or plexus.
Several fibres ofi this ganglion., running down upon-
the aorta, meet with other nerves fent from the pofterior
trunk of the intercoftal; which continues its courft along"
the fides of the vertebra, they fopply the glandulse re-
nales, kidneys, and teftes in men, or ovaria in- women-;
and then they form a net-work upon the inferior melem-
teric artery where die nerves of the two fides meet,
and accompany the branches of this artery to the part
of the colon that lies in the left fide of the belly, and to
the reiftum, as far down as to the Itower part of the pelvis.
The intercoftal continuing down by the fide of the ver¬
tebra of the loins, is joined;by nerves coming from be¬
tween thefe vertebra, and fends nerves to the organs- of
generation and others in the pelvis, being- even joined
with thofe that are font to tire inferior extremities.
The Spenal Nerves rile generally by a number of
chfgregared fibres from-both the fore and back part of the
medulla fpinalis, and foon after form- a- little knot or gan¬
glion, where they acquire ftrong-coats, and are extend*-
ed into firm cords. They are diftinguiftied by numbers,
according to the vertebra from between which they
come out; the fuperior of the two bones forming the hole
, through which they pafs, being rhe one fr om which the
cumber
Part V. A N A 'I
number is applied to each nerve. There are generally
faid to be thirty pair of them ; feven of which come out
between the vertebrae of the neck, twelve between thcfe
of the back, five between thofe of the loins, and lix
from the falfe vertebrae.
The First Cervical pair of nerves comes out be¬
tween the firft and fecond vertebrae of the neck; and ha-
ving given branches to join with the tenth pair of the
head, the.fecond cervical and intercoflal, and to fervC
the mufcles that bend the neck, it fends its largeft
branches backwards to the extenfor mufcles of the head
and neck; fome of which piercing through thefe mufcles,
run up on the occiput to be loft in the teguments here ;
and many fibres of it advance fo far forward as to be
connefted with the fibrils of the firft branch of the fifth
pair of the head, and of the portio dura of the auditory
nerve.
The Second Cervical is foon joined, by fome
branches, to the ninth of the head and intercoftal, and
to die firft and third of the neck; then has a large
branch that comes out at the exterior edge of the fter-
no-maftoidaeus mufcle, where it joins with the accefibrius
of the eighth pair; and is afterwards diftributed to the
latyfma myoides, teguments of the fide of the neck and
ead, parotid gland, and external ear, being connedted
to the portio dura of the auditory nerve, and to the firft
cervical. The remainder of this fecond cervical is fpent
on the levator fcapulae and the extenfors of the neck and
head. Generally a large branch is here fent off to join
the accefforius of the eighth pair, near the fuperior angle
of the fcapula.
The Third Pair of the neck paffes out between the
third and fourth cervical vertebras; having immediately
a communication with the fecond, and fending down a
branch, which being joined by a branch from the fourth
cervical, forms the Phrenic nerve. This defcending,
enters the thorax, between the fubclavian vein and ar¬
tery; and then being received into a groove, formed for,
it in the pericardium, it has its coutfe along this capfula
of the heart, till it is loft in the middle'part of the dia¬
phragm. The right phrenic has a ftreight courffe; but.
the left one is obliged to make a conf'derable turn out¬
wards, to go over the prominent part of the pericardium,
where the point of the heart is lodged. The middle
of the diaphragm fcarce could have been fupplied by any
other nerve which could have had fuch a ftreight courfe
as the phrenic lias.
The other branches of the third cervical' nerve are dl-
ftributed to the mufcles and teguments at the lower part
of the neck and top of the Ihoulrer.
The Fourth Cervical nerve, after fending off that
branch which joins with the third to form the phrenic,
and beftowing twigs on the mufcles and glands of the
freck, runs to the arm-pit, where it meets with the
Fifth, Sixth, and Seventh cervicals, and First
Dorsal, that efcape in the interftices of the mufeuli
foaleni, to- come at the arm-pit, where they join, fepa-
rate, and rejoin, in away fcarce to be rightly expreffed in
words; and, after giving feveral'confiderable nerves to
the mufcles and teguments which cover the thorax, they
divide into fcveral branches, to be diftributed' to all the
O M’ Y. 25 f
parts of the fuperior extremity. Seven of thefe branches
we lhall deferibe under particular names.
X. Scapularis runs ftreight to the cavitas femilu-
nata of the upper cofta of the fcapula, which is a hole, in
the recent fubjedt, by a ligament being extended from one
angle of the bone to the other, giving nerves in its way
to the mufclcs of the fcapula. When it has paffed this
hole, it liipplies the fupra-fpinatus mufcle ; and then de¬
fcending at the anterior root of the fpine of the fcapula,
it is loft in the other mufcles that lie on the dorfum of
that bone.
2. Arttcularis finks downward at the axilla, to
get below the neck of the head of the os humeri, and
to mount again at the back-part of it; fo that it almoft
furrounds the articulation, and is diftributed to the muf¬
cles that draw the arm back, and to thofe that raife it up.
3. Cutaneus runs down the fore-part of the arm,
near the fldn, to which it gives off branches; and then
divides, on the infide of the fore-arm, into feveral nerves,
which fupply the teguments there, and on the palm of
the hand..
4. Musculo-Cutaneus, ok perforans Cafferi, paf¬
fes through the coraco-brachialis mufcle; and, after fup-
plying the biceps flexor cubiti and brachiaeus internus,
pafles behind the tendon of the biceps, and over the ce¬
phalic vein, to be beftowed on the teguments on the out-
fide of the fore-arm and back of the hand.
5. Muscularis has a fpiral courfe from the axilla,
under the os humeri, and backward to the extertial part
of that bone, fupplying by the way the extenfor midcles
of the fore-arm, to which it runs between the two bra-
chisei mufcles, and within the fupinator radii longus.—
At the upper part of the fore-arm, it fends off a branch,
which accompanies the fupinator longus till it comes near'
the wrift, where it pafies obliquely over the radius, to
be loft in the back of the hand arid fingers. The princi-
pahpart of this nerve pierces through the fupinator radii
brevis, to ferve the mufcles that extend the hand ami
fingers, whofe actions are not injured when the fupinator
a<5ls.
6-. Ulnaris is extended along the infide of the arm,’
to give nerves to the mufcles that extend the fore-arm,
and to the teguments of the elbow: Towards the lower
part of the arm, it flants a little back-ward, to come at
the groove behind the internal condyle of the os humeri,
through which it runs- to the ulna: In its couife along,
this bone, it ferves the neighbouring mufcles and tegu-*
ments; and as it comes near the wrift, it detaches a.
branch obliquely over the ulna to the back of the hand,
to be loft in the convex part of feveral fingers. The
larger part of the nerve goes ftreight forward to the in¬
ternal fide of the os pififorme of the wrift; where it fends:
off a bianch which finks under the large tendons in the
palm, to go crofs to the other fide of the wrift, ferving.
the mufeuli lumbricaJes and interoffei, and at laft ter¬
minating in the fliort mufcles of the thumb and fore-fin¬
ger. What remains of the ulhar nerve, after fugplying
the fliort mufcles of the little finger, divides into three'
branches; whereof two are extended along the fides of
the fheath of the tendons of the flexors of the little fin¬
ger, to furnilh the concave fide of that finger; and the;
third
252 A N A T
third branch is difpofed in the fame way upon the fide of
the ring-finger next to the little finger.
When we lean or prefs on the internal condyle of the
os humeri, the numbnefs and prickling we frequently
feel, point out the courfe of this nerve.
7. Radial is accompanies the humeral artery to the
bending of the elbow, ferving the flexors of the cubit in its
way ; then palling through the pronator radii teres mufcle,
ir gives nerves to the mufcles on the fore-part of the fore-
arm, and continues its courfe near to the radius, bellow¬
ing branches on the circumjacent mufcles. Near the
wrilt, it fometimes gives off a nerve, which is dillribu-
ted to the back of the hand, and the convex part of the
thumb, and feveral of the fingers, inllead of the branch
of the mufcular. The larger part of this nerve, palling
behind the annular ligament of the wrift,' gives nerves to
the (hort mufcles of the thumb; and afterwards fends a
branch along each fide of the (heath of the tendons of
the flexors of the thumb, fore-finger, mid-finger, and
one branch to the fide of the ring-finger, next to the
middle one, to be loft on the concave fide of thofe
fingers.
Though the radial nerve paffes through the pronator
mufcle, and the mufcular nerve feems to be ftill more un¬
favourably placed within the fupinator brevis; yet the
attion of thefe mufcles do not feem to have any effetf in
hindering the influence of thefe nerves, for the fingers or
hand can be bended while pronation is performing vigo-
roufly, and they can be extended while fupination is ex-
ercifed.
The manner of the going off of thefe nerves of the
fingers, both from the ulnar and radial, is, that a Angle
branch is fent from the trunk to the fide of the thumb
and little finger, fartheft from the other fingers ; and all
the reft are fupplied by a trunk of a nerve, which fplits
into two fome way before it comes as far as the end of
the metacarpus, to run along the fides of different fin¬
gers that are neareft to each other.
It might have been obferved, that, in defcribing the
pofterior branches of the ulnar and mufcular nerve, we
did not mention the particular fingers, to the convex part
of which they are diftributed. The reafon of this omif-
fion is, the uncertainty of their diftribution ; for though
fometimes thefe pofterior branches goto the fame fingers,
to the concave part of which the anterior branches of the
ulnar and radial are fent, yet frequently they are diftri¬
buted otherwife.
The fituation of thefe brachial nerves in the axilla,
may let us fee how a weaknefs and atrophy may be
brought on the arms by a long continued preffure of
crutches, or fuch other hard fubftances on this part;
and the courfe of them from the neck to the arm, may
teach us, how much better effedts veficatories, or ftimu-
lating nervous medicines, would have, when applied to
rhe fit in, covering the tranfverfe proceffes of the verte-
brse of the neck, or at the axilla, than when they are
put between the Ihoulders, or upon the fpinal procefles,
in convulfions or palfies of the fuperior extremities,
where a ftimulus is required.
The Twelve Dorsal nerves of each fide, as foon
as they efcape from between the vertebrae, fend a branch
O M Y. Part V.
forward to join the intercoftal, by which a communica¬
tion is made among them all; and they fbon likewife
give branches backwards to the mufcles that raife the
trunk of the body, their principal trunk being extended
outward!, to come at the furrow in the lower edge of
each rib, in which they run toward the anterior part of
the thorax, between the internal and external intercoftal
mufcles, giving off branches in their courfe to the muf¬
cles and teguments of the thorax.
The First dorfal, as was already obferved, is parti¬
cular in this, that it contributes to form the brachial
nerves; and that the two branches of the intercoftal,
which come down to the thorax, form a confiderable
ganglion with it.
The Six lower dorfal nerves give branches to the dia¬
phragm and abdominal mufcles.
The Twelfth joins with the firft lumbar, and be¬
llows nerves on the mufeulus quadratus lumborum and
iliacus internus.
As the intercoftal is larger in the thorax than any where
elfe, and feems to diminilh gradually as it afcends and
defcends, there is caufe to fufpedt that this is the trunk
from which the fuperior and inferior pairs are fent as
branches.
The Five Lumbar nerves on each fide communicate
with the intercoftal and with each other, and give
branches backwards to the loins.
The First communicates with the laft dorfal, fends
branches to the abdominal mufcles, to the pfoas and ilia¬
cus, and to the teguments and mufcles on the fore-part
of the thigh; while its principal branch joins with the
other nerves, to form the crural nerve.
The Second Lumbar nerve paffes through the pfoas
mufcle, and is diftribnted nearly in the fame way as the
former: as is alfothe Third.
Branches of the fecond, third, and fturth, make up
one trunk, which runs along the fore-part of the pelvis;
and, palling in the notch at the fore-part of the great
hole common to the os pubis and ifchium, is fpent on the
addu&or mufcles, and on the teguments on the infide of
the thigh. This nerve is called the Obturator, or
Posterior Crural Nerve.
By united branches from the firji, fcjcond, third, and
fourth lumbar nerves, a nerve is formed that runs along
the pfoas mufcle, to efcape with the external iliac veffels
out of the abdomen, below the tendinous arcade of the
external oblique mufcle. This nerve, which is named
the Anterior Crural, is diftributed principally to
the mufcles and teguments on the fore-part of the thigh.
A branch, however, of this nerve runs down the infide
of the leg to the tipper part of the foot, keeping near to
the vena faphasna; in opening of which with a lancet at
the ankle, the nerve is fometimes hurt, and occafions
ftiarp pain at the time of the operation, and numbnefs
afterwards.
The Sixth Pair of,the falfe Vertebra: confift
each of fmall pofterior branches, fent to the hips, and of
large anterior branches. ^
The firjl, fecond, and third, after coming through
the three upper holes in the fore-part of the os factum,
join together with the fourth and fifth of the loins, to
form
Part VI. A N A T
form the largefl: nerve, of the body, which is well known
by the name of Sciatic or Ischiatic nerve: This,
after fending large nerves to the different parts of the
pelvis, and to the external parts of generation, and the
podex, as alfo to the mufcles of the hips, pafles behind
the great tuber of the os ifchium, and then over the
quadrigemini mufcles, to run down near to the bone of
the thigh at its back-part, giving off nerves to the neigh¬
bouring mufcles and teguments. Some way above the
ham, where it has the name of the poplitaus nerve, it
fends off a large branch that paffes over the fibula, and
finking in among the mufcles on the anterior external part
of the leg, runs down to the foot, to be loft in the up¬
per part of - the larger togs, fupplying the neighbouring
mufcles and teguments every where in its paffage. The
larger branch of the fciatic, after giving branches to the
mufcles and teguments about the ham and knee, and
fending a large cutaneous nerve down the calf of the leg,
to be loft at laft on the outfide of the foot and upper part
of the leffer toes, finks below the gemellus mufcle, and
diftributes nerves to the mufcles on the back of the leg;
among which it continues its courfe, till paffing behind
the internal malleolus, and in the internal hollow of the
os calcis, it divides into the two plantar nerves : The in¬
ternal of which is diftributed to the toes, in the fame
manner that the radial nerve of the hand ferves the con¬
cave fide of the thumb and fingers; and the external
plantar is divided and diftributed to the foie of the foot
and toes, nearly as the ulnar nerve is in the palm of the
hand, and in the concave part of the fingers.
Several branches of thefe nerves, that ferve the infe¬
rior extremities, pierce through mufcles.
The Fourth, which, with the two following, is
much fmaller than the three'fuperior, foon is loft in the
vefica urinaria and inteftinum reftum.
The Fifth comes forward between the extremity of
EXPLANATION
Etc. i. Reprefents the inferior part of the brain;—
the anterior part of the whole fpine, including the
medulla fpinalis ;•—with the origin and large portions
of all the Nerves.
A A, The anterior lobes of the cerebrum. B B, The
lateral lobes of the cerebrum. C C, The two lobes
of the cerebellum. D, Tuber annulare. E, 1 he paf¬
fage from the third ventricle to the infundibulum.
F, The medulla oblongata, which fends off the me¬
dulla fpinalis through the fpine. G G-, That part of
the os occipitis which is placed above (H H), the
the tranfverfe proceffes of the firft cervical vertebra.
I I, &c. The feven cervical vertebrae, with their in¬
termediate, cartilages. K K, See. The twelve dorfal
vertebrae, with their intermediate cartilages. L L, See.
The five lumbar vertebrae, with their intermediate car¬
tilages. M, I he os facrum. N, The os coccygis.
Nerves.—i i. The firft pair of nerves, named
olfactory, which go to the nofe. 2 2, The fecond
pair, named <?/>//<:, which goes to form the tunica re¬
tina of the eye. 3 3, The third pair, named viotpr
oculi; it fuppliesmoft of die mufcles'of the eye-ball.
Vol. I. No. 11. 3
O M Y, 253
the os facrum and coccygis, to be diftributed principally
to the levatores ani.
The Sixth, which fome think to be only a produftion
of the dura mater, advances forward below the broad
fhoulders of the firft bone of the os coccygis, and is loft
in the fphinfter ani and teguments covering it.
The fize of the nerves of the inferior extremities feems
larger proportionally than in the fuperior extremities;
the inferior extremities having the weight of the whole
body to fuftain, and that frequently at a great difadvan-
tage. What the effedt is of the nerves here being in¬
jured, we fee daily, when people happen, by fitting wrong,
to comprefs the fciatic nerve, they are incapable for fome
time after to fupport themfelves on the affedled extre¬
mity ; and this is ftill more remarkable in the fciatic or
hip-gout, in which the member is not only weakened,
but gradually fhrivels and waftes.
Uses of the "Nerves.
Many experiments concur in proving, that the nerves
are the inftruments of fenfation. As to the mode of their
operation, feveral different theories have been given. Some
fuppofe, that they are elaftic cords, refembling iiddle-
ftrings; and that they convey fenfations to the brain by
a kind of vibratory motion. Others have fuppofedthem
to be tubular, and to contain a fluid called a//zV/W fpir its ;
and that fenfation is produced by the motions and coun¬
ter-motions of this fluid Many ufeLfs volumes have been
wrote upon each of thefe hypothefes.—Another and more
recent theory fuppores, that the nerves are not tubular,
but that they are pervaded by a fubtile elaftic fluid called
/Ether; and that ienfation, dc. are occafioned by the of-
cillations of that fluid. A few detached and ilbdjgefted
feraps of this theory have already appeared in fome tem¬
porary produdions, the principal of which has been fuffi-
ciently animadverted upon under the word A£ther.
of PLATE XVIII.
4 4, The fourth pair, named pathetic,—which is
wholly fpent upon the mufculus trochlearis of the eye.
5 y. The fifth pair.divides into three branches.—The
firft, named ophthalmic, goes to the orbit, fupplies
the lachrymal gland, fends branches out to the fore-,
head and nofe.— The fecond, named Juperior maxil¬
lary, fupplies the teeth of the upper jaw, and fome
of the mufcles of the lips.—The third, named infe¬
rior maxillary, is fpent upon the mufcles and teeth of
. the lower jaw, tongue, and mufcles of the lips.-
. 6 6, The fixth pair, which, after fending off the be¬
ginning of the intercoftal or .great fympathetic, is fpent
upon the abdudor ocnli. 7 7, The feventh pair, na¬
med auditory, divides into two branches.—The lar-
geft, named por.tio mollis, is fpent upon the internal
ear.—The fmalleft, portio dura, joins to the fifth
pair within the internal ear by a refleded branch from
the fecond of the fifth, and within the tympanum,
by a branch from the third of the fifth, named chorda
tympani.—Vid. fig, 3. near B. 8 8, &e. The eighth
pair, named par vagum,— which accompanies the in¬
tercoftal, and is fperit upon the tongue, larynx, pha-’
t 3 $ rynx.
rynx, lungs, and abdominal vifcera. 9 9, The ninth
pair, which are fpent upon the tongue. 10 10, 8cc.
The intercofta], or great fympathetic, which is feen
from the fixth pair to the bottom of the pelvis on each
fide of the fpine, and joining with all the nerves of the
fpine;—in its progrefs fupplying the heart, and, with
the par vagum, the contents of the abdomen and pel¬
vis. 11 11, The acceflbrius, which is fpent upon the
flerno-cleido maftoidaeus and trapezius mufcles. 1212,
The firlt cervical nerves;—13 13, The fecondcervical
nerves;—both fpent upon the mufcles that lie on the
neck, and teguments of the neck and head. 1414, The
third cervical nerves, which, after fending off (1515*
&c.) the phrenic nerves to the diaphragm,—fupply the
mufcles and teguments that lie on the fide of the neck
and top of the fhoulder. 1616, The brachial plexus,
formed by the fourth, fifth, fixth, feventh cervieals,
and firft dorfal nerves,—which fupply the mufcles and
teguments of the fuperior extremity. 17 i?) The
twelve dorfal, or proper intercoftal nerves, which are
fpent upon the intercoftal mufcles and fome of the
large mufcles which lie upon the thorax. 18 18, The
five lumbar pairs of nerves, which fupply the lumbar
and abdominal mufcles, and fome of the teguments
and mufcles of the inferior extremity. 19 19, The
facro-fciatic, or pofterior crural nerve,, formed by the
two inferior lumbar, and three fuperior of the os fa-
O M Y. Part V.
crum.—This large nerve fupplies the greateft part of
the mufcles and teguments of the inferior extremity.
20, The ftomachic plexus, formed by the eighth pair.
21 21, Branches of the folar or cssliac plexus, form¬
ed by the eighth pair and intercoftals, which fupply
the ftomach and chylopoetic vifcera. 22 22, Branches
of the fuperior and inferior mefenteric plexufes, form¬
ed by the eighth pair and intercoftals, which fupply
the chylopoetic vifcera, with part of the organs of
urine and generation. 2323, Nerves which accom¬
pany the fpermatic cord. 24 24, The hypogaftric
plexus, which fupplies the organs of urine and gene¬
ration within the pelvis.
Fig. 2, 3, 4, 5. Shews different views of the inferior
part of the brain, cut perpendicularly through the
middle,—with the origin and large portions of all the
nerves which pafs out through the bones of the cra¬
nium,—and the three firft cervieals.
A, The anterior lobe. B, The lateral lobe of the ce¬
rebrum. C, One of the lobes of the cerebellum.
D, Tuber annulare. E, Corpus pyramidale, in the
middle of the medulla oblongata. F, The corpus o-
livare, in the fide of the medulla oblongata. G, The
medulla oblongata. H, The medulla fpinalis.
Nerves.'—1 234J678&9, Pairs of nerves.
10 10, Nervus acceflbrius, which comes from—11 12
& 13, the three firft cervical nerves.
P A R T VI.
Of fuch Parts of the Body as could not properly be deferibed under any of the
former general Divifions.
Sect. I. Of the common Integuments.
THE SKI N.
THE ffdn is a fubftance of very large extent, made
up of feveral kinds of tendinous, membranous,
vafcular, and nervous fibres, the intertexture of which is
fo much the more wonderful, as it is difficult to unfold;
for their diredtions are as various as thofe of the fluff of
which an hat confifts.
This texture is what we commonly call leather, and
it makes, as it were, the body of the fkin. It is not ea-
fily torn, may be elongated in all diredtions, and after¬
wards recovers itfelf, as we fee in fat perfons, in women
with child, and in fwellings; and it is thicker and more
compadt in fome places than in others.
Its thicknefs and compadlnefs are not, however, al¬
ways proportionable ; for on the pofterior parts of the
body, it is thicker and more lax than on the fore-parts;
and on the palms of the hands, and foies of the feet, it
is both very thick and very folid.
The outer furface of this fubftance is furnifhed with
fmall eminences, which anatomifts have thought fit to
call papillte, in which the capillary filaments of the cu¬
taneous nerves terminate by fmall radiated pencils.
Thefe papillae differ very much in figure and difpofi-
tion in the different parts of the body, and they may
be diftinguifhed into feveral kinds.
The greateft part of them is flat, of different breadths,
and feparated by fulci, which form a kind of irregular
lozenges. The pyramidal figure aferibed to them, is
not natural, and appears only when they are contradled
by cold or by difeafes.
The papillae of the palm of the hand, of the foie of
the foot, and of the fingers and toes, are higher than
on the other parts of the body; but they are likewife
fmaller, clofely united together, and placed as it were
endwife, with refpedt to each Other, in particular rows,
which reprefent on the fldn all kinds of lines, ftraight,
crooked, waving, fpiral, eic. Thefe fevcral lines are
often diftin&ly vifible in thofe parts of the palm of the
hand which are next the firft phalanges of the fingers.
The red part of the lips is made up of papilla;, repre-
fenting very fine hairs or villi, clofely united together.
There is another particular kind under the nails; the
papillae being there more pointed, or in a manner conical,
and turned obliquely towards the ends of the fingers.
Thofe
yiafe ^Viir
Part VI. ANA
Thofc which are found in the hairy fcalp, fcrotum, &c.
are /till of other kinds.
. The papillse of the firft and fecond kinds appear to be
. furrounded at their bafes by a foft mucilaginous and
pretty vifcid fubftaace, which fills the interftices between
them, and reprefents a kind.of net-work or fieve, the
mafhes or holes of which furround each papilla. This
fubftance is commonly called corpus reticulare, or mu-
I
This vafcular texture is of various forms and figures
in the different parts of the body.
The inner furface of the Ikin is covered by very fmall
tubercles, commonly called cutaneous glands, or glan¬
dule miliar es.
« Thefe tubercles are partly fixed in fmall foffulse, in
the fubftance of the ikin, which anfwer to the fame
• number of fmall cavities in the corpus adipofum. Their
excretory duds open on the outer furface of the Ikin,
fometimes in the papillae, and fometimes on one fide of
them.
The greateft part of them furnifhes fweat, and others
a fatty oily matter of different thickneffes, as in the hairy
fcalp, in the back, behind the ears, %nd at the lower
part of the nofe, where this matter may be fqueezed out,
in form of fmall worms.
Befides thefe corpufcles, there are other fmall folid
bodies, almoft of an oval figure, contained in the fub¬
ftance of the Ikin. Thefe are the roots or bulbs from
whence the hairs arife, and fome of them are fituated
within the inner furface of the Ikin.
The Ikin has feveral confiderable openings, fome of
which have particular names; fuch as the fiffure of the
palpebras, the nares, the mouth, the external foramen
of the ears, the anus, and openings of the prts of ge¬
neration.
Befides thefe, it is perforated by an infinite number of
fmall holes, called pores, which are of two kinds. Some
are more or lefs perceivable to the naked eye; fuch as
the orifices of the milky duds of the mamms, the ori¬
fices of the excretory canals of the cutaneous glands,
and the paffages of the hairs.
The other pores are imperceptible to the naked eye,
but vifible through a microfcope; and their exiftence is
likewife proved by the cutaneous tranfpiration, and by
the effeds of topical applications; and from thefe two
phenomena, they have been divided into arterial and ve¬
nal pores.
THE CUTICULA, OR EPIDERMIS.
The outfide of the Ikin is covered by a thin tranfpa-
rent web, ciofely joined to it, which is called epidermis,
cuticula, or the fcarf-fkin.
The fubftance of the cuticula appears to be very uni¬
form on the fide next the Ikin, and to be compofed on
the other fide of a great cumber of very fine fmall fqua-
mous laminae, w'ithout any appearance of a fibrous or
yafcular texture, except fome fmall filaments, by which
it is conneded to the papillae.
This fubftance is very folid and compad, tmt yet ca¬
pable of being extended and thickened, as we fee by
r O M Y. 255
fteeping it in water, and by the blifters raifed on the Ikin
by veficatories. It yields very much in fwellings; but
not fo much as the Ikin, without breaking or cracking.
Hard and reiterated fridions loofen it infenfibly, and
prefently afterward, a new ftratum arifes, which thrulls
the firft outward, and may itfelf be loofened and thruft
outward by a third ftratum, and fo on.
The epidermis adheres very ciofely to the cutaneous
papillse, from which it may be feparated by boiling; or
by fteeping, for a long time, in cold water.
It adheres ftill clofer to die corpus reticulare, which
is eafily raifed along with it; and they feem to be true
portions or continuations of each other.
The epidermis covers the Ikin through its whole ex¬
tent, except at the places where the nails lie. It is
marked with the fame furrows and lozenges as the Ikin,
and has the fame openings and pores; and though it may
be faid to pafs the bounds of the Ilcin, where it is conti¬
nued inward, dirough the great openings, yet at thefe
places it lofes the name of epidermis.
When we examine narrowly the fmall pores or holes,
through which the fweat paffes, the epidermis feems to
enter thefe, in order to compleat the excretory tubes of
the cutaneous glands. The foffulse of the hairs have
likewife the fame produ&ions of the epidermis, and it
feems to give a fort of coat or bark to the hairs them-
felves. Laftly, the almoft imperceptible duds of the cu-.
taneous pores are lined by it.
USES OF THE SKIN.
It is chiefly and properly the filamentary fubftance,
called the body of the Ikin, which is the univerfal inte¬
gument of the body, and the bafis of all the other cuta-'
neous parts; each of. which has its particular ufes.
The Ikin is able to refill external injuries to a certain
degree, and fuch impreffions, fridions, ftrokes, tc. to
which the human, body is often liable, as would hurt,
wound, and diforder the parts of which it is compofed,
if they were not defended by the Ikin.
The papillae are the organ of feeling, and contribute
to an univerfal evacuation, called infenfible tranfpiration.
They likewife ferve to tranfmit from without, inwards,
the fubtle particles or impreffions of fome things applied
to the Ikin. The firft of thefe three ufes depends on
the extremities of the nerves, the fecond on the arterial
produdions, and the third on the produdions of the
veins.
The cutaneous glands fecrete an oily humour of differ- -
ent confiftences, and they are likewife the origin of fweat.
The epidermis fci ves to keep the pencils or nervous fi¬
laments of the papillae in an even fituation, and without
confufion; and it like wife moderates the impreffions of
external objeds.
Another ufe of the epidermis is to regulate the cuta¬
neous evacuations already mentioned, the moll confider¬
able of which is infenfible tranfpiration.
THE MEMBRANA ADIPOSA, AND FAT.
The fecond univerfal integument of the human body.
256 ANA
is the membrana adipofa, or corpus adipofum. This is
not, however, a Angle membrane, but a congeries of a
great number of membranous laminae, joined irregularly
to each other at different diltances, fo as to form nume¬
rous interftices of different capacities, which communicate
with each other. Thefe interftices have been named cel-
lu!a-t and the fubftance made up of them, the cellulous
fubjlance.
The thicknefs of the membrana adipofa is not the
fame all over the body, and depends on the number of
laminae of which it is made up. It adheres very clofe-
ly to the flcin, runs in between the mufcles in general,
and between their feveral fibres in particular, and com¬
municates with the membrane which lines the infide of the
thorax and abdomen.
The ftrufture is demonftrated every day by butchers,
in blowing up their meat, when newly killed; in doing
which, they not only fwell the membrana adipofa, but
the air infinuates itfelf likewife in the interftices of the
mufcles, and penetrates even to the vifcera, producing a
kind of artificial emphyfema.
Thefe cellular interftices are fo many little bags or
fatchels, filled with an umftuous or oily juice, more or
lefs liquid, which is called /h/.
This fubftance increafes in quantity in the body, by
reft and good living; and on the contrary, diminifhes by
hard labour and a fpare diet.
The proportional differen :es in the thicknefs of this
membrana adipofa, are determined, and may be obferved
to be regular in fome parts of the body, where either
beauty or ufe required it.
Thus we find it in great quantities, where the inter¬
ftices of the mufcles would otherwife have left difagree-
able hollow or void places ; but being filled, and as it
were padded with fat, the flcin is raifed, and an agree¬
able form given to the part.
In fome parts of the body the fat ferves for a culhion,
pillow, or mattrefs ; as on the buttocks, where the lami-
nse and cells are very numerous
The fat is likewife of great ufe to the muf les, in pre-
fsrving the flexibility necefiary for their adtions, and in
preventing or lefiening their mutual fridtions.
THE NAILS.
The fubftance of the nails is like that of horn, and
they are compofed of feveral planes of longitudinal fibres
foddered together. Thefe ftrata end at the extremity of
each finger, and are all nearly of an equal thicknefs, but
of different lengths.
The external plane or ftratum is the longeft, and the
reft decreafe gradually, the innermoft being the fttorteft;
fo that the nail increafes in thicknefs from its union with
the epidermis, where it is thinneft, to the end of the fin¬
ger, where it is thickeft. '•
The graduated extremities or roots of all the fibres of
which thefe planes confift, are hollowed for the reception
of the fame number of very fmall oblique papillae, which
are continuations of the true flcin, which having reached
to the root of the nail, forms a femilunar fold, in which
that root is lodged.
T O M Y. Part VI.
After this femilunar fold, the flcin is continued on the
whole inner furface of the nail. The fold of the flcin is
accompanied by the epidermis, to the root of the nail
exteriorly, to which it adheres very clofely.
Three parts are generally diftinguiihed in the nail, the
root, body, and extremity. The root is white and in
form of a crefcent; and the greateft part of it is hid un¬
der the femilunar fold already mentioned.
The crefcent and the fold lie in contrary dire.dtions to
each other. The body of the nail is naturally arched,
tranfparent, and appears of the colour of the cutaneous
papillae which lie under it.
The principal ufe of the nails is to (Lengthen the ends
of the fingers and toes, and to hinder them from being
inverted towards the convex fide of the hand or foot,
when we handle or prefs upon any thing hard.
THE HAIRS.
The hairs belong as much to the integuments as the
nails. They are a kind of reeds or nifties, the roots or
bulbs of which lie toward that fide of the flcin which is
next the membrana adipofa. The trunk or beginning of
the ftem perforates the flcin, and the reft of the ftem ad¬
vances beyond the outer furface of the flcin, to a certain
diftance, which is very various in the different parts of
the body.
When the different hairs are examined by a micro-
fcope, we find the roots more or lefs oval, the largeft
extremity being either turned toward, or fixed in the
corpus adipofum.
This oval root is covered by a whitilh ftrong membrane,
in fome meafure elaftic; and it is connedled either to the
flcin, to the corpus adipofum, or to both, by a great
number of very fine veffels and nervous filaments.
Within the root, we obferve a kind of glue, fome
very fine filaments of which advance toward the fmall
extremity, where they unite and form the ftem, which
paffes through this fmall extremity to the flcin. As the
ftem paffes through the root, the outer membrane is
elongated in form of a tube, which clofely invefts the
ftem, and is entirely united to it.
The ftem having reached the furface of the flcin,
pierces the bottom of a fmall foffula between the papil-
Ise, or fometimes a particular papilla, and there it meets
the epidermis, which feems .to be inverted round it, and
to unite with it entirely. A fort of un&uous matter
tranfudes through the fides of the foffula, which is be¬
llowed on the ftem, and accompanies it, more or lefs, as
it runs out from the flcin, in form of an hair.
Sect. II. Of the Abdomen.
The Abdomen begins immediately under the thorax,
and terminates at the bottom of the pelvis of the ofla in-
nominata. Its circumference, or outer furface, is di¬
vided into regions, of which there are three anterior, -
viz. the epigaftric or fuperior region, the umbilical or;
middle region, and the hypogaftric or lower region,.
There is but one pofterior region, named regio lumbaris.
The
Part VI. ANA
The epigaftnc region begins immediately under the
appendix erdiformis, at a {mail fuperficial depreffion, call¬
ed the pit of the ftomach, and ends above the navel
at a tranfverfe line, fuppofed to be drawn between the
laft falfe ribs on each fide.
This region is fubdivided into three parts ; one middle,
named epigaftrium; and two lateral, termed hypochon¬
dria. The epigaftrium takes in all that fpace which lies
between the falfe ribs of both fides, and the hypochon¬
dria are the places covered by the falfe ribs.
The umbilical region begins above the navel, at the
tranfverfe line already mentioned, and ends below the
navel at another tranfverfe line, fuppofed to be drawn
parallel to the former, between the two criftce of the
os ilium.
This region is likewife divided into three parts ; one
middle, which is properly the regio umbilicalis ; and two
lateral, called ilia, or the flanks; and they comprehend
the fpace between the falfe ribs and upper part of the os
ilium on each fide.
The hypogaftric region is extended downward from
the inferior limit of the umbilical region, and is divided
into three parts : one middle, called pubis ; and two la¬
teral, called inguina, or the groins.
The lumbar region is the pofterior part of the abdo¬
men, and comprehends all that fpace which reaches
from the lowelt ribs on each fide, and the laft vertebra
of the back, to the os facrum and neighbourings parts
of the ofla ilium. The lateral parts of this region are
termed the loins, but the middle part has no proper name
Laftly, the bottom of the abdomen, which anfwers to
the pelvis of the Ikeleton, is terminated anteriorly by
the pudenda or parts of generation, and pofteriorly by
the clunes and anus. The buttocks are feparated by a
fofla, which leads to the anus; and each buttock is ter¬
minated downward by a large fold, which diftinguifties
it from the reft of the thigh.
The fpace between the anus and the parts of genera¬
tion, is called perinaeum, and is divided into two equal
lateral parts by a very diftindt line, which is longer in
males than in females.
The cavity of the abdomen, formed by the parts al¬
ready mentioned, (all which are covered by the Ikin
and membrana adipofa) is lined on the infide by a parti¬
cular membrane, called peritonaeum. It is feparated
from the cavity of the thorax by the diaphragm, and ter¬
minated below by the mufculi levatores ani.
This cavity contains the ftomach, and the inteftines.
It contains likewife the mefentery, mefocolon, omentum,
Kver, gall bladder, fpleen, pancreas, glands of the me¬
fentery, vafa la&ea, receptaculum chyli, kidneys, renal
glands, ureters, bladder, and the internal parts of ge¬
neration in both fexes.
The whole fore-part of the abdomen forms an oblong
convexity, like an oval vault, more or lefs prominent in
the natural ftate, in proportion to the quantity of fat up¬
on it, and of food contained in it, or to the different
degrees of pregnancy in women. The hypogaftric and
umbilical regions are more fubje&to thefe varieties, than
the epigaftric region.
Vol. I. Numb. ii.
T O M Y. 257
The appendix enfiformis of the fternum, tlie cartilagi¬
nous portions of the laft pair of true ribs, thofe of the
firft four pairs of falfe ribs, all the fifth pair, the five
lumbar vertebrae, the offa innominata, the os facrum,
and os coccygis, form the bony lides of the cavity of the
abdomen.
The diaphragm, the mufcles called particularly muf¬
culi abdominis, the quadratilumborura, pfoai, iliaci, the
mufcles of the coccyx, and of the inteftinum re<ftum,
form the chief part of the circumference of this cavity.
The cavity of the abdomen is of an irregularly oval
figure, but ftiil fymmetrical. On the forefide it is uni-<
formly arched or oval, and its greateft capacity is even
with the navel, and neareft part of the hypogaftrium.
On the upper fide it is bounded by a portion of a vault,
very much inclined. On the backfide, it is in a manner
divided into two cavities by the jutting out of the ver-
tebne of the loins. On the lower fide, it contra&s gra¬
dually all the way to the little edge of the pelvis,
and from thence expands again a little as far as the os
coccygis and tubercles of the ifehium, terminating in the
void fpace between thefe three parts.
PERITONAEUM.
Having carefully removed the mufcles of the abdo¬
men, the firft thing we difeover is the peritonaeum, a
membranous covering, which adheres immediately to the
inner furface of the mufeuii tranfverfi, and of all the o-
ther parts of this cavity; and involves and inverts all
the vifeera contained therein, as in a kind of bag.
The peritonaeum in general is a membrane of a pretty
clofe texture, and yet very limber, and capable of a very
great extenflon ; after which it can recover itfeif, and be
contracted to its ordinary fize; as we fee in pregnancy,
dropfies, corpulency, and repletion.-
It feems to be made up at leaft of two portions, one
internal, the other external; which have been looked
upon by many anatomifts as a duplicature of two dif-
tindt membranous laminas. But, properly Ipeaking, the
internal portion alone deferves the name of a mem¬
branous lamina, as being the main body of the perito-
nasum. The external portion is no more than a kind
of fibrous or follicular apophyfis of the internal; and
may properly enough be termed the cellular fubftance of
the peritonamm.
The true membranous lamina, commonly called the
internal lamina, is veryfmooth, and polifired on that fide
which is turned to the cavity and vifcera of the abdomen,
and continually mqiftened by a fefous fluid difeharged
through almoft imperceptible pores.
The cellular fubftance, or external portion of the peri¬
toneum, adheres very clofely to the parts which form
the infides of the cavity of the abdomen.
The cellular fubftance has feveral elongations, which
have been called productions of the peritonaeum. Two
of thefe productions accompany and inveft the fpermatic
ropes in males, and the vafcular ropes, commonly called
the round ligaments, in women. There are other two,
which pafs under the ligamentum Falloppii, with the
t 3 T crul'^
3
25B A N A T
crural velTels, which they involve, and are gradually loft
in their courfe downward.
To thefe four produ<5tions of the cellular fubftance of
the peritonaeum, we may add a fifth, udiich is fpread on
the neck of the bladder, and perhaps a fixth, which ac¬
companies the inteftinum return. AH thefe elongations
pafs out of the cavity of the abdomen, and may be
termed external, to diftinguilh them from others that
remain in the abdomen, and are called internal, of which
hereafter.
The great blood-veflels, that is, the aorta and vena
cava, are likewife involved in this cellular fubftance of
the peritonaeum. In a word, it involves immediately
and feparately all the parts and organs which are com¬
monly faid to lie in the duplicature of the peritonaeum.
It has, neverthelefs, productions of its own, but they
are very different from thofe of the cellular fubftance;
for they run from without, inward, that is, they advance
from the convex fide of the great bag of the peritonaeum,
into the cavity of that bag, fome more, fome lefs, and
alfo in different manners; as if the fides of a large
ball or bladder were thruft inward into the cavity of the
ball or bladder.
Of thefe internal elongations or intropreflions of the
true lamina of the peritonaeum, fome are limply folded,
like a duplicature ; fome are expanded like inverted bags
or facculi to contain fome vifeus ; fome begin by a Ample
duplicature, and are afterwards expanded into a cavity,
which contains fome organ; fome are alternately extend¬
ed in the form of Ample duplicatures, and of cavities;
and laftly, fome form only a fmall eminence on the inner
furface of the great cavity of the peritonaeum.
The chief ufes of the peritonaeum are, to line the ca¬
vity of the abdomen, to invert the vifeera contained in
that cavity as in a common bag, to fupply them with
particular coats, to form productions, ligaments, con¬
nexions, folds, vaginae, <bc.
The fine fluid which tranfudes through the whole in¬
ternal furface of the peritonaeum, prevents the inconve¬
niences which might arife from the continual frictions
and motions to which the vifeera of the abdomen are
expofed either naturally or by external impulfes.
VENTRICULUS, or STOMACH.
The ftomacb is a great bag or refervoir, fituated partly
in the left hypochondriam, and partly in the epigaftrium.
The figure of the ftomach is like that of a bag-pipe,
oblong, incurvated, large and capacious at one end, and
fmall and contracted at the other.
The curvature of the ftomach gives us occafion to di¬
ftinguilh two arches in it; one large, which runs along
the greateft convexity ; and one fmall, direCtly oppofite
to the former. The fides of the ftomach, are the two
lateral portions which lie between the two arches.
The ftomach has two extremities, one large, and one
fmall like a crooked funnel. It -has two openings, cal¬
led the orifices of the ftomach, one between the great
extremity and the fmall curvature, the other at the end
of the fmall or contracted extremity. The firft opening
O M Y. Part VI.
is a continuation of the cefophagus; the other joins the
inteftinal canal, and is called pylorus.
The great extremity of the ftomach is dn the left hy-
pochondrium, and for the moft part immediately under
the diaphragm.
The fmall extremity of the ftomach does not reach to
the right hypOchoudrium. It bends obliquely backward
toward the upper orifice, fo that; the pylorus lies about
two fingers breadth from the body of the vertebrse im¬
mediately under the fmall portion of the liver, and con-,
fequently lower down, and more forward than the- p-
ther orifice by almoft the fame diftance.
According to this natural fituation, the ftomach, efpe-
cially when full, lies fo as that the great curvature is
turned more upward than downward, and the fmail cur-,
vature more backward than upward.
One of the lateral convex fides is turned upward, the
other downward; and not forward and backward, as they
appear in dead bodies, where the inteftines do not fup-
part them in their natural fituation.
The ftomach is compofed of feveral parts, the chief of
which are the different ftrata which form its fubftance,
to which anatomifts give the name of tunicas or coats.,
Tiiefe coats are commonly reckoned to be four in num¬
ber, the outer or common, the flelhy or mufcular, the
nervous or aponeurotic, and the villous or inner coat; and
they are afterwards fubdivided feveral ways.
The firft or outermoft coat is Amply membranous, be¬
ing oneof the internal prodn&ions of the peritonaeum.
The fecond or mufcular coat is made up of feveral
planes of fibres, which may all be reduced to two, one
external, the other internal. The external Coat is longitu¬
dinal, though in different refpefts, following nearly the
direction of the curvatures and convexities of the fto¬
mach ; and the internal plane is tranfverfely circular.
Between the outer and inner planes,- round the fu-
periour orifice, there are two diftindt planes, about th^
breadth of a finger, and very oblique, which furround
this orifice in oppofite directions, and interfedt each o-
ther where they meet on the two lateral fides.
Along the middle of each lateral fide of the fmall
extremity, there runs a tendinous or ligamentary flat
portion, above a quarter of an inch in breadth, which
terminates in the pylorus. Thefe two portions lie be¬
tween the common and mufcular coats, and adhere very
ftrongly to the firft.
Between the fame two coats, there is a cellular
fubftance which adheres very clofelyto the external coat,
and iofinuates itfelf between the flelhy fibres of the fe¬
cond, all the way to the third.
The third coat, called commonly tunica nervofa, fu-
ftains, on its convex fide, a very large reticular diftri-
bution of capillary veffels and nerves. On the concave
fide, it feems to be of a very loofe texture, and as it were
fpungy or filamentary, containing a great number of
fmall glandular bodies, efpecialiy near the i'mall curva¬
ture and fmall extremity of the ftomach.
The fourth coat of the ftomach is termed villofa, be-
caufe, when it fwims in clear water, fome have imagined
they faw fomething in it like the pile of velvet,
Thefe two coats are of a larger extent than the two,
farmer.
Part VI. ANA’
f
cormer, and they join in forming large rugae on the con-
aave furface of the ftomach, the greated part of which
re tranfverfe, though irregular and waving.
In the interftices of theie rugae, there is often found a
fort of flimy mucus, with which the whole cavity of
die ftomach feems likewife to be moiftened. This mu¬
cus is much more fluid in living bodies, and is fupplied
by the glands of the ftomach. It is termed fuccus gaftri-
cus or ftomachicus.
On the inner furface of the fmall extremity of the fto¬
mach, at the place where it ends in the inteftinal canal,
we obferve a broad, thin, circular border, with a roundifh
hole in the middle. This hole is the inferiour orifice of
the ftomach, called by the Greeks pylorus, which figni-
fies a porter.
This border is a fold or duplicature of the two inner
coats of the ftomach, the nervofa and villofa ; and it is
formed in part by a fafciculus of flefliy fibres fixed in
the duplicature of the tunica nervofa, and diftinguifhed
not only from the other flefhy fibres of the extremity of the
ftomach, but alfo fromthofe of the inteftines, by a thin,
whitiih circle, which apppears even dirough the exter¬
nal or common coat, round the union of the ftomach and
inteftines.
The figure of the pylorus is that of a ring, tranfverfe-
ly flatted, the inner edge of which, or that next the
center, is turned obliquely toward the inteftines, like a
broad portion of a funnel. This inner edge runs na¬
turally more or lefs into little plaits or gathers, like the
mouth of a purfe almoft fhut. It is therefore a kind of
fphincter, which can contraft the inferior orifice of the
ftomach, but feems not capable of fhutting it quite clofe.
The ftomach receives in general whatever the mouth
fends thither, through the canal of the oefophagus ; but
its partciular ufe is to receive the aliments, to contain
them for a longer or fhorter time, in proportion as they
are more folid or fluid, and to digeft them, that is, to
put them in a condition to be turned into that nutritious
fluid called chyle.
This operation, which goes by the general name of
digeftion, and by which chylification begins, is perform¬
ed partly by the fuccus gaftricus, which flows continually
from the tunica villofa, and partly by the continual
contraction and relaxation of the mufcular coat.
The pylorus, or flefhy circle of the inferiour orifice
of the ftomach, ferves to retain the aliments in it, till
they have acquired a fufficient degree of fluidity to
pafs eafily through that opening.
The gentle and alternate motions of the orbicular fi¬
bres of the mufcular coat, may affift in fending through
the pylorus, in the natural way, the aliment that is fuffiT
ciencly digefted. This was called the periftaltic or vermi¬
cular motion, by thofe who believed that it is fuccefiively
reiterated, like that of earth-worms when they creep.
■ The fimation. of the ftomach, which is nearly tranf¬
verfe, is likewife of ufe in making the aliment remain
long enough in that cavity, and may ferve to make the
length of this ftay in fome meafure arbitary, by means
of the different poftures of the body; for when v/e lie on
the left fide, the aliment muft remain longer, than when
we lie on' the right, <tc.
r O M Y 25.9
7^4 Intestines in general, Inteftinum Duodenum
in particular.
Between the pylorus and the very loweft part of the
abdomen, lies a long canal, bent in a great many dif¬
ferent directions, by numerous convolutions or turnings,
called the inteftines.
This canal, thus folded and turned, forms a confider-
able bulk, which fills the greateft part of the cavity of the
abdomen; and it is connected, through its whole extent,
to membranous productions or continuations of the peri-
tonseum, principally to thofe called the melentery and
mefocolon.
The incurvations of the inteftinal canal form two
arches, a fmall one by which it is connected to the mefen-
tery and mefocolon, and a great one on the oppofite fide,
which lies loofe. The whole canal is generally about
feven or eight times as long as the body.
The inteftines in general are compofed of feveral
coats, much in the fame manner with the ftomach.
The firft and outermoft is a continuation of the mefen-
tery, or of fome other elongation or duplicature of the
peritonaeum.
This is commonly termed the common coat; and it
has a cellular fubftance on its inner furface, like that of
the ftomach.
The fecond coat of the inteftines is flefhy or mufcular,
and made up of two planes, one external, the other in
ternal. The external plane is very thin, and its fibres!
longitudinal; the internal plane is thicker, and its fi¬
bres run tranfverfely round the circumference of the in¬
teftinal cylinder.
The third coat is called nervofa, and is fomething
like that of the ftomach. It has a particular plane,
which ferves' as a bafis to fuftain it, made up of very
fine, ftrong, oblique fibres, which feem to be of the lir
gamentary or tendinous kind.
This coat fuftains two reticular fubftances which are
both vafcular, one arterial, the other venal, accompanied
by a great number of nervous filaments. Thefe veflels
and nerves are produftions of the mefenteric veffels and
nerves ; and as they furround the whole canal of the in¬
teftines, fome anatomifts have formed them into a diftindt
coat, by the name of tunida vafeufofa.
The nervous coat fends off from its inner furface a
great number of portions of fepta, more or lefs circu¬
lar, which contribute to the formation of what are cal¬
led valvuke conniventes.
The fourth or innermoft. coat is very foft, and is na¬
med tunica viilofa. It has the fame extent with the
third coat, which fupports it, and it lines all the fepta of
that third coat.
The {mall inteftines form one continued uniform canal;
and though three portions of it have three diff’erent
names, yet we have no fufficient marks whereby to di-
ftinguifti them, to fix the precife extent or length of
each portion, to fettle its juft limits.
The firft and fhorteft portion of the whole canal,
is called duodenum; the fecond, which is much longer,
jejunum; and the third, which is ftil! longer than the
fecond, ileum.
26o A N A T
The duodenum having arifen from the pylorus, is im¬
mediately bent a little backward, and obliquely down¬
ward ; then it bends a fecond time toward the right kid¬
ney, to which it is a little connected and from thence
pafTes before the renal artery and ve n, afeending infen-
(ibly from right to left, till it gets before the aorta and
laft vertebrse of the back. It continues its courfe
obliquely forward, by a gentle turn.
Through this whole courfe, the duodenum is firm¬
ly bound down by folds of the peritonaeum, efpecially
by a tranfverfe duplicature which gives origin to the me-
focolon.
The villi of this intefline are thicker than in the fto-
mach; but the texture of them in man is not like hairs,
as they are commonly reprefented in figures; but ra¬
ther like that of a fungous granulated fubftance, com-
pofed of an infinite number of very fine papillae of dif¬
ferent figures, in which we fee, through a microfcope, a
multitude of deprefled points or pores, by which their
whole furface feems to be pierced.
By the fame help we obferve, on different places of
the inner furface of this inteftine, feveral round vil¬
lous tubercles, rifing like fmall verucas at different di-
ftances from each other.
This fubftance fuftains an infinite number of capillary
veffels, of different kinds; for befides the blood-veffels,
we fometimes obferve a great number of white fila¬
ments which run through it, and end at its inner furface,
like fo many capillary roots of the veffels, called venae
la&eas.
The internal furface of the duodenum is furnilhed
with a great number of fmall flat glandular tubercles,
raifed on the fides, and depreffed in the middle, by a kind
of foffula; and they are more numerous near the be¬
ginning of this inteftine than any where elfe.
Thefe glands appear like little bladders, with the ori¬
fices turned toward the cavity of the inteftine, and
the bodies fixed in the fpungy fubftance next the ner¬
vous coat. They furnifh a particular vifeid fluid.
In the inner furface of the duodenum, almoft at the
lower part of the firft incurvation, and on the fhorteft
fide, there is a longitudinal eminence, in the point or
apex of which lies a particular opening, which is the ori¬
fice of the du&us bilarius, within which the du&us pan-
creaticus likewife opens.
INTESTINUM JEJUNUM.
The jejunum, fo called, b:caufe it is oftener found
empty than the ilium, begins at the laft incurvation of the
duodenum, and is there connected to the beginning of
the mefocolon.
From thence it bends downward from left to right,
and obliquely forward, or from the vertebrse, and makes
feveral convolutions, which lie chiefly in the upper part
of the umbilical region. Through all this courfe it is
conne&ed to the mefentery.
The jejunum and ilium may be diftinguifhed by divi¬
ding both inteftines into five parts; and to allow nearly
two fifths to the jejunum, and three fifths and a little
more to the ileum.
O M Y Part VI.
The coats of the jejunum are nearly of the fame ftruc-
ture with thofe of the duodenum,* but thinner.
INTESTINUM ILEUM.
The convolutions of the inteftinum ileum furround
thofe of the jejunum on the two lateral and lower fid:s,
and it paifes in a winding courfe from the left fide, by
the hypogaftrium, to the right fide, where it terminares
a little below the right kidney, joining the nteftina
crafla.
The ftrufture of the ileum is much the fame with
that of the jejunum; only the internal duplicatures or
valvulas conniventes decreafe gradually both in number
and fize.
7)5? Intestina Crassa in general, Inteftinum cae¬
cum in particular.
The great inteftines are one continued canal, divided
into three portions, like the fmali ones. This canal be¬
gins by a kind of facculus or bag, which is reckoned the
firft of the three portions, and called cascum. The fe-
ccnd portion, called colon, is the longeft of the three,
and is diftinguilhed from them by a great number of par¬
ticular eminences or convexities, which appear on its
outer furface through its whole length. The iaft portion
is named reftum, being more uniform, narrower, thicker,
and much (hotter than the colon.
The ftru&ure of the great inteftines is nearly the fame
with that of the fmall ones, in regard both to the num¬
ber and difpolition of their coats. They are (hotter,
and have fewer convolutions, but are much more capa¬
cious. The coats in general are ftronger, but efpecially
the mufcular coat.
The inteftinum caecum is only a round (hort broad
bag, the bottom of which is turned downward, and
the mouth or ppening upward. It lies under the, right
kidney, and is hid by the laft convolution of the
ileum. It is about three fingers, breadth in length, and
its diameter is more than double that of the fmall in¬
teftines.
On one fide of the bottom of the cascum lies an ap¬
pendix, refembling a (mall inteftine, nearly of the fame
length with the caecum, but very (lender. It is vermed
appendicula vermiformis, fiom its fuppofed refemblance
to an earth-worm. Its common diameter is not above a
quarter of an inch. By one extremity it opens late¬
rally, and a little obliquely, into the bottom of the cae¬
cum ; and the other extremity is clofed, being fometimes
greater, fometimes fmaller, than the reft of the appendix.
Through the membranous or common coat of the cae¬
cum, we Tee three white ligamentary bands, which adhere
very clofely both to the outer and mufcular coat. One
of them is hid by the adhefion of the mefocolon; and all
the three divide the caecum longitudinally into three parts
more or lefs equal.
They all unite in the appendicula vermiformis, and
cover its whole outer fide immediately under the common
coat.
I N T E"
Part VI.
ANA
INTESTINUM COLON.
The colon k the moft confiderable of all the inteftines.
From the csecum, of which it is a continuation, it
reaches, in form of an arch, above the umbilical region,
and to the lower part of the left hypochondrium. Its
continuity is however a little interrupted by the ileum,
which advances into the cavity of the colon, and, together
with a certain fold of that inteftine, forms what is called
valvula coli.
The whole convex fide of the colon is divided longi¬
tudinally into three parts, by three ligamentary bands,
continued from thofe of the caecum, and of the fame
ilrufture with thefe. Two of the three bands run on
each fide, along the great curvature of the colon; and
the third along the fmall curvature.
Thefe three longitudinal bands do the office of frasna,
between which this inteftine is through its whole length
alternately deprefled into tranfverfe folds, and raifed in¬
to confiderable eminences. All the folds are duplica-
tures, which form portions of valvulas conniventes in the
cavity of the inteftine ; and the eminences form recep¬
tacles, called the cells of the colon.
The common coat, on one fide, is a continuation of the
mefocolon; and, on the other fide, it contributes, by the
fame continuation, to form the omentum.
The arch of the colon begins under the right kidney,
near the haunch. It runs up on the forefide of that kid¬
ney to which it is conne&ed, pafies under the veficula
fellis, which tinges it with a yellow colour at that place,
and continues its courfe before the firff incurvation of
the duodenum, to which it adheres, and partly hides it.
In this part of its courfe, therefore, there is a remark¬
able connexion between the colon, duodenum, right
Jcidney, and veficula fellis.
From thence the arch of the colon runs before
the great convexity of the flomach, and fometimes a
little lower ; then turns backward under the fpleen, in
the left hypochondrium ; runs down on the forefide of
the left kidney, to which it is conneded; below this
kidney turns toward the vertebrae, and terminates there
by a double incurvation, or by two oppofite convo¬
lutions, which reprefent in fome meafure an inverted ro¬
man S.
At the place where the caecum joins the colon, one
portion of the circumference of both is depreffed, and
forms a large fold on the infide, which advances into
the cavity of the inteftine. It is a little open in the
middle, and its extremities are very thick, by reafon of
the mutual duplicature of the coatsof the csecum and colon.
The extremity of the ileum is as it were grafted in
the opening of this fold, and ftrongly united to its fides
by the adhefion of its tranfverfe fibres to the tranfverfe
fibres of the caecum and colon.
This union forms a pretty thick ring, which likewife
I advances into the common cavity of the caecum and co¬
il ion, where it is wrinkled or formed into gathers, al-
f moll like the lower extremity of the cefophagus, the
ff pylorus or infide of the anus. Its circumference is mere
; or lefs oval j and, by a kind of continuity v.'ith the com-
Vol. I. Numb. ii.
O M Y. i6l
mon fold of the csecum and colon, it forms two pro-
du£Hons, which M. Morgagni calls the frasna of the
valvula coli.
The membranous coat of the extremity of the ileum
is continued on the caecum and colon, without finking
into any fold, at the place where the ileum enters the
colon.
This valvulacoli is contrived to hinder the return of the
excrements into the ileum; it produces this effedt part¬
ly as a valve, and partly as a kind of fphindter.
The capacious arch of the colon is contracted by both
extremities to the regio lumbaris, near the kidneys, by
two particular ligaments, one on the right fide, the other
on the left, which are only fmall duplicatures of the peri¬
tonaeum, more or lefs tranfverfe.
The remaining portion, which forms the two con¬
volutions in form of the roman S, contracts below the
left kidney, being narrower there, than lower down.
The coats of this portion become gradually thicker and
Wronger, and likewife the ligamentary bands, which ap¬
proach each other by degrees, and leem to increafe in
breadth.
INTESTINUM RECTUM ahd ANUS.
The laft of all the inteftines, is named reCtum, or the
(freight gut, which, properly (peaking, is a true conti¬
nuation of the lad convolution of the colon; and it is the
repofitory, fink, and common fewer, of the whole intefei-
nal canal.
The reCtum having paffed below the lad vertebra of
the loins, to the infiae of the os facrum, is bent back¬
ward on that concave fide to which it is connected ; and
having reached the os coccygis, it runs likewife in the
direction of that bone, and bends a little forv/ard, ter¬
minating beyond the extremity of the coccyx.
The figure of this intedine varies according as it is
full or empty. When empty, it is irregularly cylindri¬
cal, and finks in by a kind of tranfverfe folds ; and in th?t
date, it is about three fingers breadth in diameter, more
or lefs. When full, it is wider in proportion to the
quantity of feces, wind, or whatever elfe is contained
in it; and it may be extended to the fize of a large bladder,
fo as to reprefent a kind of domach.
The membranous coat often contains a great quantify
of fat, fpread between it -and the mufcular coat, and
forming round the intedine numerous eminences, in the
room of the appendices adipofas of the colon.
The mufcular or flelhy coat is very thick : the longi¬
tudinal fibres, which in the other intedines are very thin,
are in this dronger than the circular fibres of the red!
The ligamentary bands continue to increafe in breadth,
and to approach each other.
The nervous or filamentous and internal coats, are
larger here, than in the other intedines ; and when the
reCtum is empty, they form a great number of v/aving ru-
gse in its cavity, which difapuear, in proportion as that
cavity is filled.
The innermod coat is very improperly termed villofa,
and fcarce deferves the name of papillaris, becaufe of
the fmallnefs of the little corpufdks fpread on its furface.
3 f 3 U ‘' it
262 ANATOMY. Part VI.
It contains a great number of fingl or folitary glands;
and it is always moiltened by a mucus of different eon-
fiftences difcharged by thefe glands or folliculi.
Near the extremity of this intertine, the rugae or
folds become in a manner longitudinal; and at laft, to¬
wards the circumference of the inner margin of the anus,
they form little bags or femilunar lacunae, the openings
of which are turned upward, toward the cavity of the
inteftine. Thefe lacunae are fomething like thofe at the
lower extremity of the cefophagus, or upper orifice of
the ftomach.
At length the extremity of the re&um contratts, and
terminates by a narrow orifice called the anus, the fides
of which are difpofed in clofe folds or gathers. This
extremity of the inteftine has feveral mufcles belonging
to it, fome of which furround it like fphindters, the reft
are broad flefhy planes inferred in it, and which being
likewife fixed to other parts, fuftain it in its natural fi-
tuation, and reftores it to that fituation when difturbed
by the force neceflary for the exclufion of the feces.
Thefe latter mufcles are termed levatores ani, the firrt
go by the general name of fphinfters.
Thefe fphindters are three in number, one inteftinal
or orbicular, and two cutaneous or oval; whereof one is
large, fuperior, and internal; the other fmall, inferi¬
or, and external.
The inteftinal or orbicular fphinfter of the anus, con-
fifts merely in an augmentation of the inferior portion
of the flelhy fibres of the extremity of the redtum.
The cutaneous ligament goes out anteriorly, from
the extremity of the os coccygis. It is very flender,
and divides into two portions at the orifice of the anus,
which run into the membrana adipofa, and are inferted
in the Ikin on each fide of the anus, by a kind of expan-
fion ; and continuing to divaricate, they are loft on the
two Tides of the peritonaeum.
The interofleous ligament of the ofla pubis is a very
ftrong triangular membrane, fixed by two of its edges in
the inferior rami of thefe bones, all the way up to their
common fymphyfis. The third edge, which is the loweft,
is loofe ; and this whole membrane, the middle of which
is perforated by' a particular hole, is ftretched very tight
between the two bones, and under their cartilaginous
arch, to which it adheres very clofely.
At the lower part of this,interofleous ligament, along
its whole lower or lo9fe edge, lies a digaftric mufcle,
fixed by its two extremities in the rami of the olfa pubis,
its middle tendon lying on the middle of the edge of the
ligament.
The cutaneous fphin&ers have each an anterior and
pofterior infertion, ending both ways in a kind of point,
and comprehending the orifice of the anus between their
middle portions.
They are diftinguifhed from each other by their fitua¬
tion, by their fize, and by a kind of white cellular line.
The greateft of the two appears to be double, and the
fmalleft lies neareft the Ikin, and adheres moft clofely
to it.
They are inferted backward, partly in the apex of the
os coccygis, and partly in the contiguous portion of the
cutaneous ligament of that bone. Forward their chief
infertion is in the middle tendon of the tranfverfalis ure'-
thrae; and they have likewife fome connexions to other
mufcles of the urethra.
The levatofes ani are broad, thin, mufcular portions,
fixed by one extremity of their fleftiy fibres round the
concave fide of the inferior portion of the pelvis, from
the fymphyfis of the ofla pubis, beyond the fpine of the
ifchium. The other extremity of thefe fibres runs
down on each fide behind, and under the curvature of
the end of the redlum, where they meet together, and
unite from the bafis of the os coccygis all the way to the
margin of the anus.
We ought likewife to remark, that the margin or edge
of the anus is formed by the union of the fltin and epi¬
dermis with the internal coat of the'redum ; fo that the
moft fuperficial portion of that coat feems to be a conti¬
nuation of the epidermis.
MESENTERIUM & MESOCOLON.
This great bundle of inteftines is not left to move at
random in the cavity of the abdomen; but artfully bound
down by a membranous ■web, which prevents the intefti¬
nal convolutions from being intangled in each other, and
from being twilled or comprefled in all their different ways
of meeting; and' yet allows them a gentle floating, but
limited motion.
This web is diftinguilhed into two portions; one of
which, being very broad and very much plaited, connefts
the fmall inteftines ; the other, which is long and incur-
vated, does the fame office to the greater inteftines;
Thefe two portions are in reality only one and the
fame continuation of the membranous lamina of the peri¬
tonaeum doubled back upon itfelf, and they are diftin¬
guilhed only by their breadth. Taken both together,
they form a kind of fpiral roll, more or lefs plaited in
its circumference. The firft portion has retained the
name of mefentery, the other is termed mefocolon.
The mefentery begins at the laft incurvation of the
duodenum, and runs obliquely from left to right, along |
the vertebrae of the loins. In this fpace, the membra¬
nous portion of the peritonaeum is detached on both
hands, produces a duplicature by two elongations or
particular laminae applied to each other, and thus forms •
the mefentery.
It is narrow at its upper and lower parts, but chiefly
at the upper. The middle portion is very broad, and
the edge of it next the inteftines is every where very
much plaited. Thefe plaits or folds are only waving in- ;
fle&ions, fuch as may be obferved in the edge of a piece
of lhamoy, which has been often drawn through the fin¬
gers. They make this edge of the mefentery very long, -j
and they run through about one third of its breadth.
The two lamina; are joined together by a cellular fub-
ftance, which contains glands, veflels, and nerves; and
in fome fubjefts a great quantity of fat, which keeps the
two laminae a diftance from each other.
Along the whole circumference of the mefentery, the
two laminae are naturally feparated, and applied to the
two fides of the fmall inteftines, which they invert by
their union, or rather reciprocal continuation on the great jt
curvature :M
Part VI. ANA
curvature of that canal, and carry it as in a fcarf or fling.
7'his is what forms the external or membranous coat of
the inteftines.
The mefocolon is the continuation of the mefentery,
which having reached the extremity of the ilium, con-
trads and changes its name. At this place the particu¬
lar lamina which is turned to the right (ide, forms a
fmall tranfverfe fold, called ligamentum colt dextrum.
Afterwards the mefocolon afcends towards the right
kidney, where it feems to be loft by the immediate ad-
hefion of the colon to that kidney, and to the firft incur¬
vation of the duodenum. Then it appears again, and, in-
creafing in breadth, it continues its courfe almoft tranf-
verfely under the liver, ftomach, and fpleen, where it be¬
gins to turn downward, under the left hypochondrium,
toward the kidney on the fame fide.
Through this whole courfe, the mefocolon extends in
breadth, and forms nearly a tranfverfe femicircular plane,
very little plaited dt its great circumference. By this
circumference or edge, it is connefted to the colon ; and
hides that ligamentary band of this inteftine, which runs
along its fmall curvature. By its fhort or fmall edge, it
forms the triangular cafe of the duodenum ; and by its
great edge, the external coat of the colon, in the fame
manner as the mefentery does that of the fmall inteftines.
As it paffes under the large extremity of the ftomach, it
adheres a little to the lower portion of that extremity, as
the diaphragm does to the upper.
• Haying got below the left kidney, it ‘contracts and
forms another tranfverfe fold, called ligamentum coll Ji-
nijlrum. Afterwards it expands again, but not fo much
as in the upper part, and runs down on the left pfoas
mufcle, toward the laft vertebrae of the loins. This
defcending portion is fixed to the convolutions of the co¬
lon in the fame manner as the fuperior portion is to the
arch of that inteftine.
The inteftinum reftum is likewife inverted by a parti¬
cular produ&ion of the peritonaeum, called commonly by
the barbarous name of meforedum. This production is
very narrow; and, about the middle of the forefide of the
reCtum, it forms a tranfverfe femicircular fold, which
appears when the inteftine is empty, but is loft when it
is filled.
GLANDULvE MESENTERICAi, VASA
LYMPHATICA & LACTEA.
Between the laminae of the mefentery, a great num¬
ber of glands lie fcattered through the cellular fubftance.
In the natural ftate, thefe glands are fomething of the fi¬
gure of lentils or little round beans ; fome of them being
orbicular, others oval, but all of them a little flatted.
Thefe glands are of the number of thofe that anato-
mifts call glandulte ccnglobatct, the ftruflure of which
is not as yet fufficiently known. They feem to be of a
cellular fubftance, furrounded by a very fine membrane
or coat, on which, by the help of microfcopes, we difco-
ver an intertexture of particular filaments.
Befides the blood-vefiels which are diftributed in a
reticular manner in the mefenteric glands, and befides
many nervous filaments fpread through them, we dif-
T O M Y. 263
cover an infinite number of fmall veflels of another
kind running from gland to gland.
Thefe veflels are extremely thin and tranfparent, and
furndhed on the infide with numerous valves, which ap¬
pear on the outfide like little fmall knots very near each
other. They go out from each gland by ramifications,
as by fo many roots, and having formed a fmall trunk,
they are again divided, and enter fome neighbouring
gland by the fame kind of ramifications by which they
went out from the former.
They are termed lymphatic vejjels, becaufe for the
moft part they contain a very clear, limpid, though mu¬
cilaginous ferum, called lympha by anatomifts But as
they have likewife been obferved to be filled with a white
milky fluid, called chyle, they have been called vafa chy-
lifera, or vtn<e ladex. They have the name of veins,
becaufe their valves are difpofed as thofe of the ordinary
blood-veins, and becaufe the fluid which they contaia
runs from fmaller into larger tubes.
They derive their firft origin from the tunica villofa of
the inteftines, and chiefly from that of the fmall inteftines,
by a great number of fmall capillary roots. From thefe
roots there arifes, between the coats of the inteftines, a
kind of rete mirabile, which furrounds almoft the whole
circumference of the inteftinal canal, between the mufcu-
lar and external coat.
This reticular texture of ladfeal veflels keeps clofe to
the external coat, and leaves the canal along with it, on
the fide, of the mefentery, where it forms two planes of
ramifications, plainly diftinguifhed from each other by
the cellular fubftance, and adhering clofely to the infide
of the two membranes of the mefentery. In this fepa-
rate ftate they run on the laminse of the mefentery, as
far as the firft mdenteric glands, where they unite again
into one plane.
After this union, the lafteal veflels are diftributed al¬
moft uniformly through the whole extent of the mefen¬
tery, from its circumference to its origin or adhefion to
the vertebrae of the back, between the mefenteric glands,
which they join, and form frequent anaftomofes or com¬
munications.
Having parted through the mefentery, the ramifications
begin to unite as they approach the fpina dorfi, and con-
fequently their number is leflened, and their fize increa-
fed ; and having palled the laft mefenteric glands, they
terminate about the middle of the adhefion of the mefo¬
colon in fmall common trunks, which receive a great
number of lymphatic veflels from the glandulae lumbares,
and others below thefe.
The ladeal veflels which lie between the mefenteric
glands and middle adhefion of the mefocolon to the fpina
dorfi, run down on the body of the inferior aorta, be¬
tween the extremities of the fmall mufcle of the dia-1
phragm, and terminate in a kind of ciftern, called by fome
receptaculum chyli, by others receptaculum Pecquetti.
The greateft part of the receptaculum chyli lies be¬
hind the right portion of the inferior mufcle of the dia¬
phragm, on the right fide of the aorta, at the union of
the laft vertebra of the back with the firft cf the loins.
It is a kind of membranous veficle, the conformation of
which is various in human fubjetfs. Sometimes it is of
2^4 A N A T
an untfofm lon^ oval figure, like the veficula fellia; fome-
times it is divided by ftriflures, into- feveral fmall round-
ifh bags more or lefs flatted, and fometimes it furrounds
the trunk of the aorta like a collar.
It is compofed of very thin coats, and its cavity is di¬
vided by fmall peliicuke or membranous fepta, the dif-
pofitisn of which is irregular. It is chiefly round the
lower part of this receptacle, that the laft la&eal veffels
are inferted, feme on the fides, and fome behind the
ao-.ta; and they are accompanied by numerous lympha¬
tic vefTels. The upper portion is contradled benveen
the aorta and vena azygos, and forms a particular ca¬
nal, which runs up through the thorax, by the name of
dutlus thoracic us.
HEPAR Sc VESICULA FELLIS.
The liver is a large and pretty folid mafs, of a dark
red colour, a little inclined to yellow, fituated immedi¬
ately under the arch of the diaphragm, partly in the
right hypochondrium, which it fills almoft intirely, and
partly in the epigaftrium, between the appendix enfifor-
mis and fpina dorfi, and terminating commonly in the left
.hypochondrium.
The figure of the liver is irregular, it being arched or
convex on the upper part, unequally concave on the low¬
er, and very thick on the right and back fides. Towards
the left and anterior fides its thicknefs decreafes very
much, and terminates there by a kind of edge; and it is
broader from right to left, than from before backwards.
It may be divided into lateral parts called lobes;
one of which is termed the great or right lobe; the o-
ther, the fmall or left lobe. Thefe two lobes are di-
itinguifhed above, by a membranous ligament; and be¬
low very plainly, by a confiderable feiffure lying in the
fame direftion with the fuperior ligament.
The eminences on the concave fide of the liver belong
to the great lobe. The principal eminence is a fort of
triangular or pyramidal apophyfis fituated backward near
the great feiffure which diftinguiflies the two lobes.
This triangular eminence is termed lobulus’ Spigelii^
or (imply the fmall lobe of the liver. One of its angles
advances a confiderable way toward the middle of the
lower fide of the great lobe, and is loft there. Toward
the forefide, there is another eminence lefs prominent
but broader; and to this eminence and the former, the
ancients gave the general name of port*.
The depreffions on the concave or lower fide of the
liver are four in number. The firft is the feiffure that
feparates the two lobes, which runs a-crofs the concave
fide, from the eminences already mentioned, to the ante¬
rior edge, v/here it terminates by a notch of different
depths in different fubjedts. This is termed the great
feiffure of the liver.
The fecond depreflion is fituated tranfverfely between
the two eminences of the great lobe, and filled by the
fines of the vena portae. T he third deprefiion is back¬
ward, between the great lobe and lobulus Spigelii, and
the vena cava pafl’es through it. The fourth is a kind
.of fulcus between the lobulus and fmall lobe of the liver,
which in the foetus ferved to receive a venal canal loft in
O M Y. Part VI.
adults, in whom it appears only as a kind of ligament.
This fulcus is in fome meafure a continuation of the great
feiffure, and joins the vena cava by an acute angle.
Befides thefe four depreffions, there is one on the
fore-part of the great lobe, in which the veficula felhs
is lodged; and it fometimes runs as far as the edge,
where it forms a fmall notch. We may likewife reckon
among thefe depreffions, a fmall fuperficial cavity in the
pofterior and lateral part of the lower fide of the great
lobe, by which it refts on the right kidney; and hke-
wife a fuperficial cavity in the left lobe, where it runs
over the ftomach.
Laftly, on the pofterior edge of the liver, there is a
great finus common to both lobes, which gives paffage
to the fpina dorfi and csfophagus, near the place where
the vena cava defeends.
The convex fide of the liver is commonly conneAed to
the diaphragm by three ligaments, which are only conti¬
nuations of the membranous lamina of the peritonajum.
One lies near the edge of the extremity of each lobe,
and one in the middle, and they are accordingly termed
the right, middle, and left ligaments. There is a cel¬
lular fubftance in the duplicature of each, in which the
blood-veffels and lymphatics run, and which fends off a
kind of lamina into the fubftance of the liver.
The right ligament fometimes connedls the great lobe
to the cartilages of the falfe ribs; and the left liga¬
ment, or that of the fmall lobe, is often double, and ad¬
vances toward the middle ligament. This middle liga¬
ment begins low, in the great feiffure of the liver, near
the eminences called porta, and from thence paffes thro’
the anterior notch and over the convex fide of the liver
at the union of the two lobes, and is fixed obliquely in
the diaphragm.
It is likewife fixed along the upper and inner part of
the vagina of the right mufculus rectus of the abdomen,
in fuch an oblique manner as to be nearer the linea alba
below than above.
Befides thefe ligaments the great lobe of the liver is
likewife conne&ed to the right ala of the tendinous por¬
tion of the diaphragm, not by a ligament, but by a
broad and immediate adhefion, without the intervention
of the membrane of the peritonaeum, which is only fold¬
ed quite round this adhefion, to form the external mem¬
brane of all the reft of the body of the liver.
The middle ligament, called improperly ligamentum
hepatis fufpenforium, contains in its duplicature a thick
white rope, like a round ligament, which was the um¬
bilical vein in the ftetus. Thus the lower part reprefents
a falx, the convex edge of which is (harp, and the other
rounded.
All thefe ligaments ferve to keep the liver in its proper
fituation, and to hinder it from inclining too much to¬
wards either fide : But we muft not imagine that any of
them ferve to fufpend it; becaufe it is fufnciently (up-
ported by the ftomach and inteftines, efpecially when
they are filled.
When the ftomach is empty, or when we faft longer
than ordinary, it is a common expreffion to fay the Jlo*
mack pinches us. As the liver is not then fuftained by
the ftomach and inteftines, it defeends by its own weight,
and
Part VI. ANATOMY. 265
and chiefly by the means of the middle ligament pulls
the diaphragm along with it. It is in that place there¬
fore that we have this uneafy fenfation, and not at the
fuperior orifice of the ftomach, as is commonly believed.
The liver is compofed of feveral kinds of velfels, the
ramifications of which are multiplied in an aftonifliing
manner, and form by the intertexture of their capillary
extremities, an innumerable colleftion of fmall pulpy,
friable corpufcles, which are looked upon to be fo many
organs defigned to feparate from the mafs of blood a
particular fluid termed the bile.
The greated part of thefe vdfels from one end to the
other is included in a membranous vagina called capfula
vena port a > or capfula GliJJ'oni.
The trunk of the vena portae is fituated tranfverfely
between the broad anterior eminence of the great lobe of
the liver, and the root of the lobulus, in a particular
fciflure, and forms what is called the finus of the vena
porta, from this finus five principal branches go out,
which are afterwards divided into millions of ramifica¬
tions through the whole fubftance of the liver.
At this place the vena portas lays down the common
office of a vein, and becomes a kind of artery as it en¬
ters, and is again ramified in the liver. The extremi¬
ties of all thefe ramifications of the trunk of the vena
portx hepatica end in the pulpy friable corpufcles which
ieem to be thick villous folliculi.
Its in thefe folliculi that the bile is fecreted, and it is -
immediately collected in the fame number of extremities
of another kind of vefl’els, which unite by numerous ra¬
mifications into one common trunk. Thefe ramifications
are termed port bilarii, and the trunk dufcus hcpaticus ;
and the ramifications of thefe two kinds of veflels are in-
veiled together by the capfula of the vena portas.
The blood, deprived of this bilious fluid, is reconveyed
to the heart by a great number of venal ramifications,
which afterwards unite into three principal branches, be-
fides others that are lefs confiderable, that terminate in
the vena cava, and are all called by the name of vena
hepatica.
The capillary extremities of the ramifications of the
vena cava, join thofe of the vena portas, and accompany
them through the liver; and yet the great branches of
both veins interfeft each other in feveral places.
The duftus hepaticus, or trunk of the pori bilarii, ha¬
ving run a little way, joins another canal called duttus
cyJUeus or vefcularis, becaufe it comes from the veficu-
la fellis. Thefe two united du&s form a common trunk
named duflus cholidochus, becaufe it conveys the bile.
This dudt having reached the incurvation of the duode¬
num, infinuates itfelf through the coats of that intelline,
and opens into the cavity thereof, not by a round papil¬
la, but by an oblong orifice, rounded at the upper part,
and contra&ed at the lower, like the fpout of an ewer,
or like a common tooth-picker.
The gall-bladder is a kind of fmall bag ffiaped like a
pear, that is, narrow at one end and wide at the other.
The wide extremity is termed the fundus or bottom,
the narrow extremity the neck, and the middle portion
the body. About one third pf^the body of the veficula
lies in a depreffion on the concave fide of the liver, from
Vot. I. No. is. 3
the trunk or finus of the vena portas, where the neck is
fituated to the anterior edge of the great lobe, a little
toward the right fide, where the bottom is placed.
The gall-bladder is compofed of feveral coats; the
outermoll of which is a continuation of that which in-
vefts the liver, and confequently of the peritoneum.
The fecond coat is fleffiy, and made up of two llrata,
one longitudinal, the other tranfverfe, the fibres of
which have nearly the fame irregular direction with thofe
of the llomach ; and this difpofition of "the fibres in thefe
vifcera is owing to the different diameters in the feverai
portions of them, and to their incurvation.
Thefe two coats are connetted by a cellular fubftance
continued between the body of the veficula and the liver,
all the way, to a whitifti ftratum, which is looked upon
as the third coat of the gall-bladder anfwering to the
tunica nervofa of the inteftines.
The innermoft or fourth coat has on the infide a great
number of reticular folds, filled with fmall lacunas, like
perforated papillas, efpecially near the neck of the vefi¬
cula where thefe folds are longitudinal, and afterwards
form a kind of fmall pylorus with plaits of the fame na¬
ture with thofe in the great one. Thefe lacunas are
looked upon to be glands.
That fide of the body of the veficula which lies next
the liver is connected to that vifcus by a vaft number of
filaments, which run a great way into the fubftance of
the liver; and among thefe filaments there are fomc
duds which form a communication between the pori bi¬
larii and veficula. They are moft numerous near the
neck of the veficula, and they are named duftus cyfl-he-
patici, or hepatico-cyjlici.
The neck of the veficula is formed by the contraftion
of the fmall extremity; and this neck bending afterwards
in a particular manner, produces a narrow canal named
duftus cyfiicus.
The neck of the veficula is nearly of the fame ftrudure
with the other parts. It has on the infide feveral reti¬
cular rugse and fome folds which appear like fragments
of valvulae conniventes, fituated very near each other,
from the neck to the contradion of the cyftic dud. The
firft of thefe folds is pretty broad and large, and almoft
circular;- the next is more oblique, and Imaller in fize;
and the reft diminiffi in the fame manner.
The bile which paffes through the dudus hepaticus in¬
to the cholidochus, may be called hepatic-, and that
which is colleded in the veficula fellis, may be termed
cyfic. The hepatic bile flows continually through the
dudus cholidochus into the duodenum, whereas the cyftic
bile flows only by reafon of plentitude or by compreffion.
The ufes of the liver ftiali be explained after the de-
fcription of pancreas, fpleen, and omentum, all thefe
v.ifcera having a great relation to the liver.
P ANC RE A S.
The pancreas is a long flat gland, of that kind which
anatomifts call conglomerate, fituated under the ftomach,
between the liver and the fpleen. Its figure refembles
that of a dog’s tongue ; and it is divided into two fides,
one fuperior, the other inferior; two edges, one ante*
f 3 X rior.
2 <5 <5 A N A T
rior, the other poRerior; and two extremities, one large,
which reprefents the bafis of a tongue, and one fmall and
a little rounded like the point of a tongue.
The pancreas is fituated tranfverfely under the ftomach,
in the duplicature of the pofterior portion of the mefo-
colon. The large extremity is connedied to the firft in¬
curvation of the duodenum, and from thence it pafles
before the reft of that inteftine, all the way to its laft
incurvation ; fo that a great part of the duodenum lies
between the pancreas and the vertebrae of the back.
The fmall extremity is fixed to the omentum near the
fpleen.
The pancreas is compofed of a great number of foft
glandular moleculae, combined in fuch a manner, as to
exhibit the appearance of one uniform mafs on the out-
fide, the furface of which is rendered uneven only by
numerous fmall convexities, more or lefs flatted. When
ihefe moleculae are feparated a little from each other,
we find along tire middle of the breadth of the pancreas,
9 particular dudl, in which feveral fmaller dudts terminate
laterally on each fide, like fmall rami in a Item.
This canal, named duftus pancreaticus, or duftus
Virfungi, is very thin, white, and almoft tranfparent,
and the extremity of the trunk opens commonly into the
extremity of the dudtus choKdochus. From thence it
diminifties gradually, and terminates in a point, next the
fpleen'. The fmall lateral branches are likewife pretty
large near the trunk, and very fmall toward the edges of
the pancreas, all of them lying in the fame plane like the
branches of the common fern.
The pancreatic dudt is fometimes double in man, one
lying above the other. It is not always of an equal
length, and fometimes runs in a winding courfe, but al¬
ways in the fame plane; and it is nearer the lower than
the upper fide of the pancreas. It pierces the coats of
the duodenum, and opens into the dudtus cholidochus,
commonly a little above the prominent point of the ori¬
fice of that canal; and fometimes it opens immediately
into the duodenum.
SPLEEN.
The fpleen is a bluifti mafs, fomething inclined to
red, and of a long oval figure, being about feven or
eight fingers-breadth in length, and four or five in
breadth. It is of a foftifti fubftance, and is fituated in
the left hypochondrium, between the great extremity of
the ftcmach, and the neighbouring falfe ribs, under the
edge of the diaphragm,, and above the left kidney.
The inner or concave fide is divided by a longitudinal
groove or fciflure, in two planes or half-fides, one upper,
the other lower; and by this groove, the veflels and
nerves enter in human fiibjefts. The fuperior half-fide
is broader and more concave than the inferior, being
proportioned to the convexity of the great extremity of
the ftomach. The inferior half-fide lies backward on
the left kidney, and forward on the colon; and fome¬
times this fide of the fpleen appears to have two fuperfi-
cial cavities, one anfwering to the convexity of the fto¬
mach, the other to that of the colon. The convex fide
of the fpleen is turned to the left riba.
O M Y. Part VI;
It is conne&ed to the ftomach, by the vefiels called vafa
brevia; to the extremity of the pancreas, by ramifica¬
tions of the fplenic artery and vein; and to the omen¬
tum, by ramifications which the fame artery and vein
fend to the fpleen, and which run in the longitudinal
groove.
It is connected to the edge of the diaphragm by a
particular membranous ligament of different breadths in
different fubjects, fixed in its convex fide, \fometimes
near the upper edge, and fometimes near the lower.
The ftrufture of the fpleen is not eafy to be unfolded
in man, and it is very different from that of the fpleens
of brutes, from which both public and private demon-
ftrations are commonly made.
Its coverings adhere to it fo clofely in man, that it is
difficult to diftinguiffi the common from the proper coat*
whereas in fome brutes, fuch as oxen, fheep, drc. we
eafily find two coats feparated by a cellular fubftance.
This covering feems to be no otherwife a continuation of
the peritonseum than by the intervention of the omentum
and mefocolon.
In man the fuSftance of the fpleen is almoft wholly vaf-
cular. In oxen the fubftance of the fpleen is chiefly re¬
ticular, and in fheep it is cellular. In oxen and fheep
there are no venal ramifications, but inftead thereof only
open finufes difpofed like branches, except a fmall por¬
tion of a venal trunk perforated on all fides, at the ex¬
tremity of the fpleen.
In the human fpleen we fee fomething like glandular
corpufcles, as in thofe of other animals; and there are
numerous venal ramifications through its whole extent.
Between thefe ramifications we every where obferve art
appearance of extravafated blood, lying in a kind of fila¬
mentary tranfparent and very delicate fubftance expand¬
ed through the whole fpleen.
This filamentary fubftance, having furrounded all the
ramifications, terminates in almoft imperceptible cells
which communicate with each other.
OMENTUM & APPENDICES EPIPLOIC.®.
The omentum is a large, thin, and fine membranous
bag, furrounded on all fides by numerous portions of fat,
which accompany and even inveft the fame number of
arteries and veins adhering clofely to each other.
The greateft part of it refembles a kind of flat purfe
or a fportfman’s empty pouch, and is fpread more or lefs
on all the fmall inteftines from the ftomach' to the Jower
part of the regio umbilicalis. Sometimes it goes down to
the lower part of the hypogaftrium, and fometimes does
not reach beyond the regio epigaftrica. It is commonly
plaited or folded in feveral places, efpecially between the
bands of fat.
It is divided into a fuperior and inferior, an anterior
and pofterior, and a right and left portion. The fupe¬
rior portion is in a manner divided into two borders,
one of which is fixed along the great curvature or con¬
vex fide of the arch of the colon, and the other along
the great curvature of the ftomach. The commiflure or
union of thefe two borders on the right fide, is fixed to
the common ligament or adhefion of the duodenum and
cobs*
Part VI. A N A T O M Y. 267
colon, and to the contiguous parts of thefe inteftines.
That on the left fide is fixed to the longitudinal fcifTure
of the fpleen, to the extremity of the pancreas, and to
the convex fide of the great extremity of the ftomach.
It is likewife fixed to the membranous ligament which
fuftains the du6tus choiidochus, and connedts it to the
vena porta; ventralis.
Below thefe adhefions, the other portions, that is,
the anterior, pofterior, two lateral and inferior portions,
which laft is the bottom of the fucculus epiploicus, have
commonly no fixed connedtions, but lie loofe between the
fore-fide of the cavity of the abdomen and inteftines.
The membrane of the omentum is through its whole
extent made up of two extremely thin laminse joined by
a cellular fuftance; the quantity of which is very confi-
derable along the blood-veflels, which it every where ac¬
companies in broad bands, proportioned to the branches
and ramifications of thefe veftels. Thefe cellular bands
are more or lefs filled with fat according to the corpu¬
lency of the fubjedh
Befides this large membranous bag, there is another
much fmaller, which differs from the large one, not on¬
ly in fize, but alfo in figure, fituation and connexion ;
and this is the ////A? omentum. This fmall bag is
fixed by its whole circumference, partly to the fmall
curvature of the ftomach, and partly to the concave fide of
the liver before the finus of the vena ports, fo as to fur-
round and contain the prominent portion of the lobulus.
The kttle omentum is thinner and more tranfparent
than the other, and its cavity diminifhes gradually from
the circumference to the bottom. Its ftrudture is pretty
much the fame with that of the great omentum, it be¬
ing compofed of two laminse, with a mixture of the fame
portions of fat, which are confiderably finer than in the
ether.
The fatty appendices of the colon and re<ftum appear
to be a kind of fmall omenta or appendices epiploic®.
They are fituated at different diftances along thefe in¬
teftines, being particular elongations of their common or
external coat. They are of the fame ftrudlure with the
great omenta, and there is a cellular fubftance contained
in their duplicature, more or lefs filled with fat, accord¬
ing as the fubjedt is fat or lean.
Uses of the Abdominal Vifcera.
The inteftines in general finifh what the ftomach
had begun. The alimentary pulp having been juffi-
ciently prepared by the fuccus gaftricus, or lymph of the
ftomach, undergoes a further change by the inteflinal
lymph, bile, and pancreatic juice, by which the milky
liquor called chyle is produced, and this liquor rendered
fluid enough to enter the ladteal vefl’els through the tu¬
nica viliofa of the fmall inteftines, while the groffer por¬
tion of the aliment continues its courfe, and becoming
gradually thicker as it advances toward the great inte¬
ftines, is there colledled by the name oifteces.
The valve of the colon, which might more properly
be termed fphintter or pylorus of the ileum, hinders the
feces from returning into the finall inteftines.
The glandular lacuna of the inteftines furnifh conti¬
nually a kind of mucilage, which not only defends the
internal coat from the acrimony of the feces, but ferves
alfo to lubricate thefe feces in proportion to their diffe¬
rent degrees of folidity.
The inteftinum redtum is the laft refervatory of the
feces. The great thicknefs of its mufcular coat, and
the great number of longitudinal fibres by which this
thicknefs is chiefly formed, enable it to yield to the col¬
lected feces to fo great a degree, as to reprefent a large
bladder or ftomach. The mufculi levatores ani ferve to
fufpend the lower portion of this inteftine, efpecially
when full; and it is partly by the contradHon of thefe
mufcles which overcome the fphindter of the anus, that
the feces are difcharged out of the body. Thefe fphinc-
ters form the third pylorus of the whole alimentary
canal.
The mefentery and mefocolon connedt the inteftines,
in fuch a manner, as that they cannot be twifted or run
into knots, without hindering them from Aiding and
yielding to each other according to the different poftures.
of the body, or according as they are more or lefs empty
or full.
The adhefiens of the mefentery form the convolutions
of all the fmall inteftines into a large bundle, irregularly
round, which fills a great part of the cavity of the abdo¬
men, from the epigaftrium downward.
The mefocolon by its adhefion to the colon forms a
kind of feptum tranfverfum, between the frnall inteftines
and the vifcera contained in the epigaftrium ; and this fep¬
tum fipports the liver and ftomach under the arch of the
diaphragm, juft as much as it is fuftained by the inteftines.
The breadth of the mefentery and mefocolon affords
a large extent to the ramifications of the arteries, veins,,
and nerves, diftributed through them by innumerable
communications and anaftomofes, by means of which any
portion of the inteffines may be fupplied, though the
principal branch which leads to it ftiould happen to be
compreffed or obftrufted.
The cellular fubftance in the duplicature of the mefen¬
tery and mefocolon, ferves not only for a foft bed to alb
thefe ramifications, but alfo to contain thofe colledtions
of fat neceffary for the formation of the bile; and the cel¬
lular fubftance of the mefentery has likewife one ufe pe¬
culiar to it, which is to inveft the lymphatic glands and
laifteal veffels, and upon this account it is thicker than;
that of the mefocolton.
The ladteal veffels being firft formed by a copious re¬
ticular texture round the circumference of the inteftines,
refembling the vafcular network of that canal, and after¬
wards uniting every where through the duplicature of the
mefentery, with the arterial ramifications which they
likewife accompany in many places ; it is- eafy to conceive,
that the pulfation of the mefenteric arteries muft propel
the chyle in the lafteal veffels fiom the inteftines to the
receptaculum chyli, that motion being fuitable to the di¬
rection of their valves.
The liver is the principal’organ for the fecretion of the
bile. The vilii of that immcnfe number of glandular
cells of which it is compofed, filtrate continually from
the blood of the vena port® fmall drops of bile,, which
afterwards infinuate themfclves into the gori bilarii, and'
are.-.
z69
are in part lodged in the yeficula felhs, and in part run
diredtly into the duodenum.
The fpleen, omentum, appendices epiploicae, adipofe
ftrata of the mefenter'y, and thofe of the great inteftines,
and even the pancreas, with the whole feries of glands
in the inteftinal canal, feem to contribute to the forma¬
tion of the bile, as fo many auxiliary or rather prepara¬
tory organs.
The veficular bile appears to be more exalted than that
in the hepatic dudt; and by meeting in the dudtus cho-
lidochus, they feem to compofe a third kind of bile,
which without the cyftic or veficular bile would perhaps
be too mild, and too acrid without the hepatic. This
bile mixes in the duodenum with the pancreatic juice,
and with that of the inteftinal glands; and from this
mixture a fluid refuits, which is proper to feparate the
chylous matter from the grofs and ufelefs part of the a-
limentary pulp, as it comes from the ftomach.
RENES & URETERES.
The kidneys are two pretty folid, glandular bodies,
fituated in the pofterior part of the cavity of the abdo¬
men, on each fide of the lumbar vertebrae, between the
laft falfe ribs and ofla ileum. The right kidney lies un¬
der the great lobe of the liver, and is confequently low¬
er than'the left, which lies under the fpleen.
The figure of the kidneys refembles that of a large
bean, their circumference being convex on one fide, and
concave on the other. The concave fide is turned to
the vertebrae, and the convex fide the oppofite way.
In each kidney we obferve a fore and back fide, an
upper and lower extremity, a great and fmall curvature,
and a convexity and concavity.
The back-fide is broader than the fore-fide; and the
upper extremity is a little broader and more incurvated
than the lower. The depreflion in the fmall curvature is
oblong and uneven, refembling a finus, furrounded by fe-
veral tubercles; and as it is turned a little toward the
fore-fide, this fide is fomething narrower than the other.
The kidneys are furrounded by a very loofe membra¬
nous and cellular covering, called mernbrana adipofa,
becaufe in fat perfons the cells of this fubftance are filled
with fat.
The proper coat or membrane of the kidneys is com-
pofed of two laminae, between which there is likewife a
very fine cellular fubftance, which may be made fenfible
by blowing through a pipe between the two laminae.
The external lamina is very thin, and adheres clofely
to the internal lamina, by means of the cellular fub¬
ftance. The internal lamina penetrates every where, by
numerous elongations, into the fubftance of the kidney,
from which it cannot be feparated withsut tearing.
The furface of the external lamina is very fmooth,
polilhed and gliftening, and it renders the whole furface
of the kidney very even and uniform.
The blood-veffels having entered the kidneys, are ra¬
mified every way; and thefe ramifications fend out other
capillary rami, which go all the way to the furface,
where they appear like irregular ftars, and furnilh the
proper membrane of the kidneys.
Part VI.
The proper membrane having furrourided the kidney
all the way to the finus, joins the veffels at that place, and
accompanies all their ramifications through the body of
the kidney, in form of a vagina or capfuia.
We may diftinguifh three kinds of fubftances in the kid¬
ney ; an exterior fubftance, which is thick, granulated,
and in a manner cortical; a middle, fubftance, which is
medullary and radiated, called Jiriata, fulcata, or tubu-
laris, becaufe it feems to be made up of radiated tubes ;
and an inner fubftance, which is only a continuation of
the fecond, and terminates on the infide by papillae, for
which reafon it is called papillaris.
The papillae, which are only a continuation of the me¬
dullary fubftance, are often a little paler than that fub¬
ftance. They are ten or twelve in number, very di-
ftindt from each other, refembling the fame number of
cones, with very broad bafes and obtufe apices.
At the point of each papilla we fee, even without a
microfcope, in a fmall depreflion, feveral very fmall
holes, through which little drops may be perceived to
run when the papillae are comprefled. Thefe are little
drops of urine, which being filtrated, partly in the corti¬
cal, partly in the medullary or tubular fubftance, do af¬
terwards pafs through the fubftance of the papillae, and
are difcharged by thefe orifices.
Each papilla lies in a kind of membranous calix or
infundibulum, which opens into a common cavity called
the pelvis. This pelvis is membranous, being of the
fame ftru&ure with the calices, of which it is a continua¬
tion ; and its cavity in man is not uniform, but diftin-
guilhed into three portions, each of which contains a
certain number of infundibula or calices, together with
the papillae which lie therein.
At the place where thefe infundibula furround the
bafes of the papillae, they fend productions into the me¬
dullary or radiated fubftance of the kidney, which ac¬
company the blood-veflels, and ferve for capfulae or va¬
ginae to all the vafcular arches, both arterial and venal,
and to their different ramifications, quite through the
cortical fubftance, and as far as the furface of the kidney.
After the infundibula have contracted in a conical form
round the apices of the papillae, each of them forms a
fmall ftmrt tube or gullet, which, uniting at different dif-
tances along the bottom of the finus of the kidney, form
three large tubes, which go out from the finus in an o-
blique direction from above downwards, and immediate¬
ly afterwards unite into one trunk.
This trunk becomes a very long canal, called the ure¬
ter. In men the three tubes fupply the place of what is
called the pelvis in brutes, and might properly be call¬
ed the roots or branches of the ureters than the pelvis.
The ureters are commonly two in number, one for each
kidney.
The fituation of the trunk, and of the roots and
branches of each ureter, with refpedt to the renal artery
and vein, is in the following manner: The artery is in
the upper part of the finus, and partly before the vein.
The vein is about the middle, and between the artery
and ureter. The ureter is in tke lower part, a little be¬
hind the vein, and it is partly furrounded by one branch
of the artery.
From
ANATOMY.
Part VI. ANA
t. The ureters run dowfi obliquely, and with a very
fniall degree of“nfleftion, from the kidneys to the lateral
parts of the inner or anterior fide of the os facrum, and
palling between the reftum and bladder they terminate in
the lall of thefe vifcera.
They are cpmpofed of three proper coats; the firft
of which, that furrounds the reft, is of a whitilli co¬
lour, and of a very compaft fdamentary texture, being
ftretched with difficulty, and appearing like a filamentary
fubftance degenerated. The next coat is of a reddiffi co¬
lour, ftronger than the firft, and made up of different
ftrata of fibres, which interfedt each other; but it is ve¬
ry hard to determine, whether they are mufcular, or
fimply membranous.
GLANDULE RENALES, vulgo C A P-
SULiEATRABILARIA.
Immediately above each kidney, lies a glandular
body, called by the ancients capfulae atribilarise ; by others
capfuls renales, renes fuccenturiati, and glandulae re-
nales. They are fituated on the upper extremity of each
kidney a little obliquely, that is, more toward the inner
edge and finus of the kidney than toward the outer con¬
vex edge.
Each gland is an oblong body with three fides, three
edges, and two points, like an irregular crefcent with its
great or convex edge ffiarp, and the fmall concave edge
broad. Its length is about two thirds of the greateft
breadth of the kidney, and the breadth of its middle
portion is about one third of its extent between the two
extremities, fometimes more, fometimes lels. Its colour
is a dark yellow.
It has one anterior, one pofterior, and one lower fide,
which lafi: may is termed the balls ; and it has one upper,
and two lower edges, whereof one is anterior, the other
pofterior. The upper edge may be called the crifta, and
the two lower edges the labia.
The furface of thefe glands is uneven ; the forefide is
the broadelt, and the lov/er fide or bafis the narroweft.
Along the middle of the anterior fide, a ridge runs from
the edge of the inner .extremity, a little above the bafis,
to the point of the other extremity, and divides this
fide into two equal parts, like the middle rib of the
leaf of a tree; and on the lower fide, under the bafis,
there is a kind of raphe or future.
The blood-veffels of thefe glands come from the ar-
terire, and venae renales, and diaphragmaticae, and like-
wife from the aorta and vena cava, from the arteria cae-
liaca, <&c. Thefe veflels are termed the capfular ar¬
teries and veins; and as they enter the glands, theyfeem
to be invefted by a vagina.
In the infide of thefe capfulae, there is a narrow trian¬
gular cavity, the furface of which is full of ffiort flrong
villi of a yellowiffi colour; but in children it is reddifn,
and of a dark brov/n in aged people. The fides of this
cavity are conne&ed by a great number of filaments;
and they appear to be wholly glandular, that is, to be
filled with very fine fmall foiliculous corpufcles.
This cavity contains an un&uous vifeid liquor, of a
yellowifh red colour, which with age changes gradually
| , , Vol.I. Numb. 12. 3
T O M Y. 2S9
into a yellowilh purple, a dark yeHow, and a black yel¬
low; and fometimes it is per foal y black; but eveq
then, if it be fpread thin on a large furface, it appears
yellow.
The ufes of thefe renal glands have not as yet been
difeovered; and all that we know about the liquor con¬
tained in them, is, that it refembles the hile. They are
very large in the foetus, and diminiffi in adults.
VESICA URINARIA.
The bladder is a kind of membranous and fteffiy
pouch or bottle, capable of dilatation and contradion,
fituated in the lower part of the abdomen, immediately be¬
hind the fymphyfis of the offa pubis, and oppofite to the
beginning of the inteftinum redum. The figure of it is
nearly that of a ffiort oval. It is broader on the fore and
back fides, than on the lateral parts ; rounder above
than below when empty, and broader below than above
when full.
It is divided into the body, neck, and bottom 5 into an
anterior, pofterior, and two lateral parts. The upper
part is termed the fundus or bottom; and the neck is a
portion of the lower part, which is contraded like the
gullet of fome vefiels.
The bladder is made up of feveral coats. That part
of the external coat which covers the upper, pofterior
and lateral fides of the bladder, is the true lamina or
membrane of the peritonaeum ; and the reft of it is fur-
rounded by a cellular fubftance, by the intervention of
which, die peritonaeum is conneded to the mufcular coat.
The proper coats are three in number, one mufcular,
one nervous, and one villous, which is the innermoft.
The mufcular coat is compofed of fevcral ftrata of fleffiy
fibres; the outermoft of which are moftly longitudinal ;
the next to thefe are more inclined toward each hand; and
the innermoft, more and more oblique; and they become
at length almoft tranfverfe.
The nervous coat is nearly of the fame ftrudrure with
the tunica nervofa of the ftomach.
The internal coat is fomething granulated ard glan-,
dular, and a mucilaginous ferum is continually difeharged
through it, which mbiftens the inner furface of the
bladder, and defends it againft the acrimony of the urine.
At the top of the bladder, above the fymphyfis of the
offa pubis, we obferve a ligamentary rope, which runs
up between the peritonaeum and the linea alba of the ab¬
domen, all the way to the navel, diminiffiing gradually
in thicknefs as it afeends. This rope had a particular
ufe in the foetus, as fhall be faid in another place. It is
fufficient to add here, that it is in part originally a pro-
duttion of the inner coats of the bladder, which produo-
tion is termed urachus. ,
This rope is compofed likewife of two other ligamen-,
tary elongations, which are the extremities of the um¬
bilical arteries, Thefe arteries come from the hypoga<-
ftricse, run up by the fides of the bladder, and remain,
hollow and filled with blood, even in adults, as high as
the middle of the bladder, through all which fpace they
likewife fend off ramifications. Afterwards they lofe
their cavity, and become ligamentary as they afeend,
t . 3Y At
270 A N A T
At the upper part of the bladder, they approach each
ether; and, joining the urachus, form that rope, which
may be termed the fuperior ligament of the bladder.
The lower part of the bladder, .which deferves the
name of fundus much better than the upper part, is per¬
forated by three openings, one anterior, and two pofte-
rior, 7'he anterior opening is formed by an elongation
of all the proper coats, in form of a gullet, turned much
in the fame manner with the inner orifice of the roftrum
cf the head of as alembic.. This-elongation is’called the
jaacH, of the bladder, the defcription of which belongs to
that of the parts of generation in men.
The other two openings in the true fundus of the
bladder, are formed by the ureters, which, in their courfe
downward already defcribed, run behind the fpermatic
Veffels, and then behind the lower part of the bladder,
approaching each other. Each ureter lies between the
umbilical artery and vas deferens of the fame fide, the
artery lying on the outfide of the ureter, and the vas de¬
ferens on the infide. , , . , .
Afterwards they get between the vafa deferentia and
the bladder,, crofling thefe canals : and then at about a
finger’s breadth from each other, they begin to pierce
the coats of the bladder. They run a little way between
the mufcular and nervous, cpats, and open into the blad¬
der obliquely, fomething nearer each other than when
they firft entered its coats.
The orifices of the ureters in the bladder, are fome¬
thing oval, and narrower than the cavity of the ureters
immediately above them. The edge of thefe orifices is
very thin, and feems to be formed merely by the union
of the internal coat of the bladder with that' of the
ureters;
Befides the ligaments already mentioned, there are
likewife two fmall ones, by which the anterior part of
the true fundus of the bladder is connedled to the ofla
pubis, which /hall be-defcribed with the neek andfphinc-
ter after the. hifiojy of the parts of generation in both
fexes.
THE PARTS OF GENERATION IN
MALES.
The fpermatic arteries- go out moft commonly from
the anterior part of the inferior aorta, near each other,
and about an inch lower than the arterise renales.
They run down obliquely in the porterior part of the
abdomen, within the ceilular fu-bftance of the perito-
E£eum, palling infenfibly from behind: forward; and fi>
parting gradually more and more from the aorta, they
crofs over the forefide of the ureters, and run through
the openings or rings of the abdominal mufcles, along
with the elongations or productions of the cellular portion
of the peritor,seam.
They are finall at their origin ; and-in their courfe
downward, they give off' pretty confiderable lateral ra¬
mifications to the membrana adipofa, peritonaeum,’ and
alfo to the mefentery.
They fcmetimes pafs through the areolae, or mefhes of
the fpermatic veins; and before they go out of the ab¬
domen*, they a-re divided into very fine rainij. which tun
O M Y. Part VI.
in a more or lefs winding courfe, almofi: parallel to each
other.
Afterwards they enter the cellular productions of the
peritonaeum, which ferve them for vaginae. They do not
fluctuate indifferently from one fide to the Other of thefe
vaginae ; but are connected along their inner furface by
thm membranous laminae, which are likewife continua¬
tions of the cellular fubftance of the peritonaeum.
The arteries continue the fame winding courfe within
thefe vaginae, palling before the vafa deferentia, which
are,likewife contained in them; and at length they ter¬
minate by ramifications in the epididymes and tefles.
The teftes are two glandular bodies, fituated near
each other, without the abdomen, below the interflice
between the groins in an adult. The ancients named
them didymi or gernini. Their fize is nearly that of a
pigeon’s egg, and they areof an oval figure, a little flat¬
ted at each fide. We may confider in each tefticle, two
extremities, two edges, and two fides. One extremity
is fituated forward, and a little upward; the other back¬
ward, and a little downward; and their edges Me up¬
ward and downward.
At the upper edge, they have each an appendix, cal¬
led epididymis, together with which it is involved infe-
veral coverings; and they are both fufpended in a com¬
mon covering, called the fcrotum.
Each tefticle is a fpermatic gland formed by a vaft
number of fine whitilh tubes, folded and twifted in dif¬
ferent manners, and dtft’ribu'ed in- different fafciculi, be¬
tween membranous fepta; the whole being furrounded
by a ftrong common covering, named tunica albuginea-.
Thefe fepta are difpofed longitudinally, divaricating
from each.other on one fide, and approaching on the o-
ther. They approach each other along one edge of the
tefticle, and terminate in a long narrow whitifti body, as
in a kind of axis.
From thence they divaricate in a regular manner, and
are lixed by their oppofite edges in the inner furface of
the tunica albuginea, of which they appear to be a con¬
tinuation. This white body may be termed the nucleus
of the1 refticle.
From this defcription, we fee that all thefe fepta are
not of an equal breadth; that the irrterftices between
them are in feme meafure trangulaf; and that the extent
of the fmall tubes, which lie thereinj muft be very con¬
fiderable. They have been reckoned to amount to many
ells, by taking'the furn of all their feveral portions; and
they may be eafily unfolded- by a long maceration, which'
deftroysthe delicate fubftance by which all their folds and
convolutions are connected and tied down.
All. thefe fmall canals- feem to terminate by a fmaller
number of common trunks at the white body or nucleus al¬
ready mentioned; which trunks do afterwards pierce the
upper part ofthe anterior extremity of the tefticle, and
are difpofed in feveral folds along the lateral external part
of the upper edge, all the way to the pofterior extremi¬
ty. From this union arifes a-long whitiftv plaited fafci--
cuius-or bundlej called epididymis, or appendix to the:
tefticle. •
The epididymis thus formed, may be reckoned a pro-
dmftion of the teftkle,. or a kind of teftis accefforius
■ acd
Part VI, ANA
and it refembles in fome meafure an arch' fupported by
its center or frame. It is more contra&ed at the middle,
than at the extremities, by which it is clofely united to
thofe of the tefticle.
Between its extremities it does not immediately touch
the tefticle, but is only loofely connected to it, by the
duplicature of a very fine and almoft tranfparent mem¬
brane, as by a'kind of ligament. This membrone is the
continuation and duplicature of the tunica albuginea or
proper coat of the reticle, which having fupplied the
place of a ligament to the epididymis afterwards invelts it.
The epididymis is flat, a little concave on the under
fide, or that next the tefticle, irregularly convex on the
upper fide, or that turned from the tefticle; and thefe
two fides are dirtinguifhed by two angular edges ; by the
innermofl of which, it is connected to the refticle, in the
manner already faid; but the outer edge and flat fide
are loofe and free.
The anterior extremity or head ofthe epididymis arifes
from the tefticle; and the pofterior extremity or tail,
which likewife adheres very clofely to it, is incurvated
from behind, forward, and a little upward, and contrac-
ting by degrees, forms a particular canal, termed vas
deferens, which Ih-all' be defended after the ferotum.
The ferotum is the cutaneous covering of the teftes;
Outwardly, it is a bag common to both, formed by a
continuation of the fltin of the neighbouring parts, and
commonly very uneven, having a great number of rugse
©n its outer furface. Interiorly it is fleftiy, and forms a
mufcular capfula for each tefticle, termed dartos.
The exterior or cutaneous portion of the ferotum is
nearly of the fame ftrudhire with the flein in general, of
which it is a continuation; only it is fomething finer,
and it is Kkewife plentifully ftored with febaceous glands
and bulbs or roots of hairs.
Though it is a common covering for both tefticles, it
is neverthelefs diftinguilhed into two lateral parts by a
fuperficial and uneven prominent line which appears like
a kind of future, and from thence has been termed raphe'.
This line is a continuation of that which divides in
the fame manner the cutaneous covering of the penis;
and it is; continued through the perineum, which it di¬
vides likewife, all the way to the anus It is only fu¬
perficial, and does not appear on the infide of the Ikin.
The inner furface of this cutaneous bag is lined by a
very thin cellular membrane, through which bulbs and
glands appear very diftin&ly when we view its infide.
The dartos, or flelhy portion of the ferotum, is a true
cutaneous mufcle ; the fibres* of which-are for the moft
part ftrongly connedted to the ftiin, running through the'
Cellular fubftance which lies- between thefe two portions
in place of a membrana adipofa, but without the leaft
appearance of fat.' This mufcle is thin, and by the dif-
pofition of its fibres- forms a bag with two cavities, of
two fmall bags joined laterally to each other, and con¬
tained within the cutaneous portion.
The lateral parts of thefe two bags, which are turned
from each other, are longer than thofe which are joined
together; and by this union afeptum is formed between
tire teftes, which may be called mediaftinum feroti.'
The raphe or future already mentioned adheres, to the.
T O M Y 371.
edge of this feptura, and thereby braces down the middle1
of the cutaneous portion, which from thence appears to
have in part two cavities.
The aponeurotic or ligamentary expanfion of the dar¬
tos is fixed in the ramus of the os pubis, between the
mufetdus triceps and the origin of the corpus caverno-
fum of the fame fide, all the way to the lower part of
the fymphyfis of thefe bones.
The vafa deferentia are two white folid flatted tubes,
one lying on the right fide, the other on the left. From
the. epididymis,.of which they are continuations, each of
them runs up "in the cellular vagina of the fpermatic vef-
fels, as high as the openings in the abdominal mufcles;
the blood-veflels lying forward, and the vas deferens be-1
hind them.
This fafciculus, thus formed by the blood-veffels, vas
deferens, and their common covering, is termed the
fpermatic rope. The covering is fmoqther on the outer
than or. the inner fide, and for that reTon it has been
looked upon as a vagina ; the internal fubftance of which
is moft cellular, and connedts all the veflels together,,
while the external forms a covering to invert them.
The vas deferens- having reached the membranous la¬
mina of the peritonaeum, where that lamina runs over
the orifice of the vagina, feparates from the blood vef-
fels, and runs backward, in form of an arch, in the cel¬
lular fubftance of the peritonaeum, as far as the neareft
fide of the bladder.
It partes afterwards behind the body of the bladder,
to which it adheres very clofely, as alfo to the lamina oft
the peritonaeum which covers it, and then continues
its arched courfe towards the neck of the bladder, where
both vafa deferentia meet, and their a-rches terminate.
In this courfe, the vas deferens partes behind and crof-.-
fes the neighbouring umbilical -artery ; crofles the extre¬
mity of-the ureter of the fame fide,'in its pallage be¬
tween that- extremity and the bladder ; . and having got-
behind the bladder, it meets the vas deferens of the o-
ther fide between the infertions of the ureters, and they
run down together to the neck of the bladder.
This canal, which at the origin of the epididymis is
pretty large and plaited, becomes immediately afterward,
fmaller and fmoother, and continues in that form till it-
gets behind the bladder, where it begins again to be-lar¬
ger and more unevens
It arifes. from the angular portion or pofterior extremi¬
ty of the epididymis^ and from thence runs forward in a.
very oblkjue couife, on the pofterior halfof the epididy-
misj where it is a little incurvated as it joins the back-
fide of the fperrnatic- veffela. -
The cavity of the vas deferens is cylindrical, though .
the whole tube is flat, and its external circumference 0-
val, and the cavity inlarges as it pafies behind the blad-.
dcr. The terminatien of-thefe canals-mull be referred,
to the hiftory of; the urethra.
The particular, coverings-of-the teftes are commonly,
called coiits; and they are reckoned to be three .in num¬
ber; 'the tunisa.mufcelofa, named cremafter, vaginalis-
and albuginea. The firft two are common to each te--
fticle; and to the fpermatic rope that belongs to it ; and
the .third is .peculiar , to the tefticle alone.
i72 A N A T
The tunita vaginalis is the moft confiderable of the three,
and muft be defcribed firft, in order to conceive the ftruc-
ture and connexion of the cremafter, which is very im¬
properly called a coat. The albuginea has been already
' defcribed with the teftes.
■ The tunica vaginalis is a continuation of the vagina
of the. fpermatic rope, which, as it approaches the te-
liicle, is gradually dilated, and forms two capfuls, one
contained within the other, the external being the
longed: and broadelt at bottom; fo that there is a void
fpace there left between them, in which the tefticle is
lodged.
The inner furface of this coat is lined by a fine mem¬
brane, which firengthens the bottom of the vagina, and
forms a kind of diaphragm, which prevents all communi¬
cation between the vagina of the fpermatic rope and the
tunica vaginalis of the tefticle.
The cremafter, improperly termed a coat, is a thin
mufcle or flefhy plane, which runs down round the va¬
gina of the fpermatic rope, and terminates in the tunica
vaginalis of the tefticle.
It furrounds almaft the whole vagina, and after¬
wards expands itfelf bn the upper and external part of
the tunica vaginalis, in which it is inferted and loft.
It arifes partly from the ligamentum Fallopii, and
partly from the lower edge of the internal oblique muf¬
cle of the abdomen ; and on this account it feems fome-
times to arife from the fpine of the os ilium.
The corpora cavernofii are two ligamentary and very
limber tubes, united laterally to each fide, through the
greateft part of their length, and folid at their two ex¬
tremities, two of which are connefled together, and
rounded like the end of a finger; the other two divari¬
cate, like the branches of the greek Y, and diminiftiing
gradually in fize after the divarication, terminate in an
oblique point. Thefe divaricated and pointed extremi¬
ties may be called the roots, and the round extremities
the heads.
Thefe two bodies are almoft cylindrical, being round,
and of an equal diameter from the roots to the heads,
where they are in fome meafure conical. The ligamen¬
tary fubftance of their fides is elaftic, and compofed of
fine clofe fibres, which are partly tranfverfe, and partly
more or lefs oblique.
The cavity of thefe ligamentary tubes is entirely filled
by a ftrong cellular or cavernous fubftance, which does
not feem to be a continuation of the fubftance of the
hides. Thefe cells communicate with each other, and
are always more or lefs full of blood, refembling pretty
much the Cellular fubftance of the fpleen ; only with
this difference, that the fides of the cells are thicker in
thefe cavernous bodies, and without any additional fub-
f lance._
By the union of the two corpora cavernofa, two exter¬
nal grooves are formed, one on the upper fide, the other
do the lower. The lower groove is fomething broader
than the upper, and it is filled through its whole length by
a third tube, narrower than the corpora cavernofa, cal¬
led the urethra.
The roots of the corpora cavernofa are fixed, each,
to the edge of the fmall ramus of the os ifehi-um and os
O M Y Part VI.
pubis. They meet at the fymphyfis of the ofia pubis,
where each of them becomes a cylindrical tube, and
unites with the other in the manner already faid.
The heads or rounded extremities join the bafis
of a diftindt body, called the glans, which is an expan-
fion of the urethra, and clofeiy united to it.
By the union of the corpora cavernofa from their roots
to their round extremities or heads, a particular feptum
is formed by the tranfverfe fibres of both. Between
the fibres of this feptum feveral fmall void fpaces are
left, by which the corpora cavernofa communicate with
each other.
The urethra is the third fpungy tube which compofes
the penis, and it adheres to the corpora cavernofa through
the whole length of the inferior groove formed by their
union. It differs from the other two, both as it is nar¬
rower, and as it forms a true hollow canal. Its fubftance
is fpungy or cavernous, except a fmall portion next
the bladder, and its inner and outer furfaces are mem¬
branous.
It is at firft no more than a membranous canal conti¬
nued from the anterior opening of the bladder, at the
place called the neck of the bladder.
About a finger’s breadth and an half from its origin,
it joins a cavernous fubftance like that of the two other
tubes, only fmaller, which furrounds it through the
whole extent of the inferior groove of the corpora ca¬
vernofa.
But before this fpungy fubftance begins to furround the
urethra, it forms a diftindt oblong body, like a pear or
onion, which is connected only to the lower convex fide
of the canal, and afterwards, being fplit on each fide,
inverts it quite round. This body is called the bulb of
the urethra, being larger than any other part of that
canal, and divided interiorly by a very fine membranous
feptum, into lateral parts; and therefore when it is in¬
flated, it appears to be double or with two heads.
The firft portion of the urethra, or that which is not
covered by the cavernous fubftance, and which from the
bladder to the bulb is only a membranous canal, is fu-
ftained by a large folid whitifti mafs, of the figure of a
chefnut, and fituated between the bladder and the bull*
of the urethra, its bafis being toward the bladder, the
apex or point toward the urethra, and the fides lying up¬
ward and downward.
This body is termed the proftates, from a greek word
that expreffes its fituation before the veficuke feminales,
and implies a plurality, becaufe it appears to be divided
into two lateral lobes, by a hollow groove which runs
through its upper fide from the bafis to the apex. The
firft portion of the urethra lies in this groove, adhering
very clofeiy to the proftates which furround it.
The body of the proftates lies on the inteftinum rec¬
tum, an d the apex is under the internal labium of the
cartilaginous arch of the offa pubis. The inner fubftance
is fpungy, but very compadt; and in each lobe there are
feveral folliculi which open into the firft portion of the
urethra, toward the bottom of the groove.
The fpungy fubftance of the urethra, having reached
the extremity of the corpora cavernofa, forms a large
head, called the glans, which crowns the three fjnicgy
Part VI. A N A T
pillars ; with this difference however, that it is a conti¬
nuation of the fpungy fub(lance of the urethra, and on¬
ly adheres to the extremity of the corpora cavernofa
without any direft communication.
The figure of the glans is that of a rounded cone, a
little flattened at the lower part, and with an oblique
prominent bafis, the circumference of which is fomething
greater than that of the corpora cavernofa.
The fpungy fubftance of the glans is thick and uni¬
form next the corpora cavernofa; but next the urethra,
it is perforated by a continuation of that canal, and is
there no thicker than the urethra before the formation
of the glans.
Therefore the canal of the urethra does not lie in the
middle of the glans, but continues its dlredl courfe thro’
the lower flat fide of it, all the way to the extremity,
where it terminates by an oblong orifice.
All the convex furface of the glans is covered by a
fine villous fubflance; and that again by a fine mem¬
brane, refembling the red part of the lips. The circum¬
ference of the bafis of the glans has a double row of
fmali papillae, which may be reckoned febaceous glands,
from w hich a thick matter is difcharged.
At the bottom of the cavity of the firft portion of the
urethra, or that which lies within the proftates, there is
a fmall oblong oval eminence, pretty large on the back
part, and terminating forv/ard in a point, called carnn-
cula ox verumovtanum. The large portion of it is com¬
monly perforated by two holes, fometimes only by one,
and very feldom by three; and thefe are the excretory
orifices of the veficulae feminales. Each orifice has a
fmall thin membranous border, which may ferve for
valves to the excretory duds of the veficulae.
On each fide of the large portion of the carunculg,
there are five or fix holes ranked in form of a crefcent
round its lateral parts ; which are the orifices of the ex¬
cretory duds of the proftates that come from the follicu-
li already mentioned, and run in an oblique courfe to the
orifices, in a kind of membranous duplicature.
The veficulae feminales are foft whitifh knotty bodies,
about three or four fingers breadth in length, one in
breadth, and about three times as broad as thick, fitua-
ted obliquely between the redum and lower part of the
bladder, in fuch a manner, as that their fuperior extre¬
mities are at a diftance from each other, and their lower
extremities united between thofe of the vafa deferentia,
of which they imitate both the obliquity and the incur¬
vation.
They are irregularly round on the upper part, and
their breadth decreafes gradually from thence. By the
union of their lower extremities, they form a kind of
fork, the branches of which are broad, and bent like
rams horns. Thefe extremities are very narrow, and
form a fmall neck, which runs behind the bladder to¬
ward its orifice, and continues its courfe in the groove of
the proftates, through the fubftance of the contiguous
portion of the urethra, till its extremities pierce the
caruncula in the manner already faid.
The inner fubftance of the veficulae is plaited, and in
a manner diftinguiflied into feveral capfulae, by contort¬
ed folds. Their external furface Is covered by a fine
Vol. I. No. 12. 3
O M Y, 273
membrane, which fi;rves forget larder and fraenum to the
folds, and is a true continqjkuori^ the cellular fubftance
of the peritonaeum. The veficnis may eafily be unfold ¬
ed, and all their contoifions’ {heightened, and by this
means they become much longer m iheir natural ftate.
Their inner furface is villous and glan luitr, and con¬
tinually furniftics a particular fluid, which, exalts, re¬
fines, and perfects the femen., which t^ey recive from
the vafa deferentia, and of which they ire the refervato-
ries for a certain time.
The paflage of the vafa defereEtia into the veficulae is
very particular. It was obferved, that thefe canals are
incurvated behind the bladder, and that their contracted
extremities unite at that place. They unite in an angle,
and run between the contiguous extremities of the vefi¬
culae ; and this union is fo clofe, that the adhering por¬
tions feem to form only one middle feptum, between two
fmall tubes, each of which is formed, partly by the ex¬
tremity of one vas deferens, and partly by that of the
neighbouring veficula.
This lateral union of the extremities of the vas defe¬
rens, and veficula feminalis on each fide, forms likewife
a kind of fhort feptum, which terminates in a crefcent,
like a fmall femihmar valve, and the extremity of the
vas deferens is narrower than that of the veficula. By
this mechanifm, the fluid contained in each vas deferens
has liberty to enter the contiguous veficula, but thgt con¬
tained in the veficula cannot return into the other canal.
Afterwards the two fmall tubes, formed each by the
extremities of the vas deferens and veficula, run in be¬
tween the bafis of the proftates, and canal of the ure¬
thra ; and perforating the fides of that canal obliquely,
they terminate in the caruncula.
The infide of the canal of the nrethra is lined by a
fine membrane, full of capillary blood-veflels; and its
furface is perforated by a great number of oblong holes
or fmall lacunae of different fizes, the largeft lying near
the glans.
Thefe lacuna;, or orifices of the excretory dufts of
the fame number of fmall glands, are difperfed througli
the fubftance of the urethra. Which dufts run for feme
way in the fpungy fubftance, along the convex fide of
the internal membrane of the urethra, and open oblique¬
ly from behind, forward into the great canal. The
edges of the lacunas are femilunar, or like a crefcent,
A little v/ay from the beginning of the cellular fub¬
ftance of the urethra, we meet with two lacuna; more
confiderable than the reft, and their duffs are very long.
Thefe lacunas and duffs lead to two glandular bodies,
fituated on the two convex fides of the fpungy fubftance
of the urethra near'the bulb. 'Each of them is about the
fize of a cherry-ftone, but they are oblong and flat,
and covered intirely by the mufcles called acctlsralortf.
Thefe two bodies are commonly called pro/lata infe¬
rior es.
The cavity of the urethra refembks nearly that of a
fmall writing pen. It is not every where round, and to¬
wards the gland becomes broader and flatter on one fide,
especially in the gland itfelf, where there is a kind of 0-
val or navicular foffula.
This canal terminates at the extremity of the glans
t 3 Z f by
4 74 A N A T
by'a narrow oblong orific; jr fiflure, which is much left
than the reft of the cavity, i The commiffures of this
fmall fiifure are turned one* toward the convex, the o-
ther toward the ffat Ide of the glans; and the labia of
the fiffure are its lateral parts ; and it feems to be fur-
rounded by fteftiy fibres.
The pneputiu"! is a continuation of the' flein of the pu¬
bis and ferotun. . anv. it adheres all the way to the balls
©f the glans. Ibe reft of the cftrhneous integument co¬
vers the glans without adhefion, and terminates by an
opening. This portion is named praputium, and along
the whole lower or back fide, both of the whole integu¬
ment in general, and of the prseputium in particular,
there runs a fine future, which is a continuation of the
raphe of the perineum and ferotum.
The inner furface of the prreputium is lined with a
fine membrane from the opening all the way behind the
bafis of the glans ; and the fame membrane is folded
from behind, forward, round the glans, forming the
proper integument thereof, and covering very clofely its
whole villous furface, as far as the orifice of the urethra,
where it joins the membrane, which lines the infide of
that canal.
This proper membrane of the glans, and internal
membrane of the praepntium, form conjointly along the
fiat part of the glans, from its bafis to the orifice of the
ttrethiti, a membranous duplicature, which like a fepturn
or mediaftinum divides this part into two lateral portions,
and limits the motions of the praeputium; for which rea-
fon it is called frtenum praputii.
The furface of the internal membrane of the praspu-
tinm difeharges a fluid which prevents it from adhering
to the glans..
Several mufcles are inferred in the parts which we
have deferibed in this paragraph.
Tile firft two mufcles are commonly termed ereftores,
nr-acceleratores urinae. The next two are called acce-
leratores. The four fmall mufcles, two of which are
fuperior, and two inferior, may be called proftatici.
The eredtores lie along the roots of the corpora ca-
vernofa; each of them being fixed by one extremity ve¬
ry obliejuely, in. the internal labium of the ramus of the
os ifehium, from the tuberofity upward. From thence
it accompanies the root of the corpus cavernofum, all
the way to the fymphyfis of the offa pubis, and is fixed
by its other extremity in the corpora cavernofa, near
their union; where the fibres of both bodies meet, and
are reciprocally expanded over both corpora. They lie
a little lower, and more interiorly, than the roots of thefe
cavernous bodies*
The mufcuK tranfverfi, called alfo triangulares, are
two long, narrow, fiefhy fafciculi, inferted each by
ene extremity in the root or beginning of the ramus of
the os ifehiunt; from whence they run tranfverfely along
the edge of the interofleous ligament of the offa pubis,
as far as the apex of the proftates, where their other ex¬
tremities meet, and form commonly a kind of digaftric
mufcle, the middle of which gives infertion to the muf-
eles of the urethra, and to the cutaneous fphincters of
die anus,.
O M Y; Part VI.
The fuperior preftatici are two thin planes, fixed in the
upper part of the infide of the fmall rami of the offa pu¬
bis; from whence they are fpread over and inferted in
the proftates. Their infertions in the offa pubis are on
one fide of thofe-of the obturatores interni.
The proftatici inferiores are fmall tranfverfe planes,
each of which is fixed in the fymphyfis, between the ra¬
mus of the os pubis and os ifehium, and from thence runs
tranfverfely, till it meets its fellow from the other fide
under the proftates, to which they are both ftrdngiy
connected, and they ferve like a girth to fuftain thefe
glands.
The PARTS or GENERATION in
FEMALES.
The parts of generation in females are feveral in
number, foine of them external, and feme internal ; and
they are all fubordinate to one principal internal part,
called the uterus.
The uterus lies between the bladder and inteftinum
re<ftum. It is a body inwardly hollow, outwardly of a
whitifh colour, of a pretty folid fubftance, and, except
in time of pregnancy, of the figure of a flat flafk,. being
in adults about three fingers breadth in length, one in
thickneft, and two in breadth at one end, and fcarcely
one at the other.
The broadett portion is termed the fundus, and the
narroweft the neck. Its fituation is oblique, the fundus
being turned backward and upward, and the neck for¬
ward and downward ; the broad fides lie next the refund
and bladder, and the narrow fides are lateral.
The cavity of the uterus is flat, and refembles an ob¬
long triangle, the fhorteft fide of which anfwers exadtly
to the fundus, and the two longeft fides lie one on the
right-hand, the other on the left.
Of the three angles of this cavity, the two which
terminate the fundus are perforated each by a nar¬
row du<ft, which with difficulty admits a hog’s bridle;
The third angle forms a flat duft wider than the former,
which perforates the neck of the uterus lengthwife, and
terminates at the extremity ef that neck by a tranfverfe
opening.
This opening is termed the internal orifice of the ute¬
rus ; and, in the natural ftate,. is narrower than the duift
of the collum uteri, fo that only a fmall ftilet can be
pafled through it. At the edge of this orifice, are feve¬
ral fmall holes, anfwering to the fame number of glandu¬
lar corpufcles, which difeharge a vifeid lympha.
The inner furface of the cavity of the uterus’ is lined
by a very fine membrane, which at the fundus or broad
portion is fmooth and even, but in the narrow portion
which leads to the orifice it is wrinkled in a particular
manner.
The portion of this membrane, which covers the bot¬
tom of the cavity, is perforated by a great number of
confiderable holes, through which fmall drops of blood
maybe obferved to pafs when the whole uterus is com-
prefied.
In. the narrow > art, which anfwers to die collum, each.
fiit
Part VI. A N A r
fide is. di vided into two lateral parts, by a kind of pro¬
minent longitudinal fine, which is larger in the upper or
-anterior fide, than in the lower or pofierior.
On each fide of thefe two longitudinal lines, there are
lines or rugae obliquely tranfverfe, and difpofed like
’branches, the longitudinal lines raprefenting trunks.
Between and round thele rugae, there are finall lacunae,
through w'hich a mucilaginous fluid is difcharged that
xlofes the orifice of the uterus.
The fubftance of the body of the uterus is fpungy and
'compaft, with a copious intertexture -of reflets. Its
•thicknefs is nearly equal and uniform in the fides and
edges, but the fundus is thicker toward the middle,
than toward the two angles, where the thicknefs de-
'creafes gradually. The edges are likewile much thinner
near thefe angles, than, near the extremity of the neck.
The uterus is covered by a portion of the peritonseum,
which ferves it for a coat, and is the continuation of
•that w'hich covers the bladder and inteftinum redtum,
running up from the lower and f>ofterior part of the
■bladder, over the anterior part of the uterus, and from
thence over the fundus, and down the backfide, and af¬
terwards going to the redtum.
On each lateral part or edge of the uterus, this por¬
tion of the peritomeum forms a broad duplkature, which
is extended on each fide, more or lefs diredlly to the
neighbouring lateral parts of the pelvis, forming a kind
of membranous feptum between the anterior and pofte-
-rior halves of the cavity of the pelvis; and it is after¬
wards continued in a loofe manner with the peritonseum,
•on the fides of the pelvis.
Thefe two broad duplicatures have the name of Uga-
Tis-nia lata, and vefpertilionnm al*. The upper edge
of eacli-is partly double or folded, forming two fmall
'dfltindl duplicatures.
The laminae of all thefe duplicatures are connedted by
a cellular fubflance, in the fame manner as the other
■duplicatures of the peritonaeum ; and they contain the
.Fallopian tubes, the ovaria, a part of the fpermatic vef-
fels, and of thofe that go to the body of the uterus, the
•ropes called the round ligaments, the nerves, fcc.
The ovaria are two whitifli, ovalj flat, oblong bodies,
fituated on the fides of the fundus uteri ; to which they
’are fixed by a kind of fliort round ligament, and incloled,
■together with it, in the duplicature of the pofierior pi¬
nion of the ligamenta lata.
They are comppfed of a compadl; tpungy fubftanee, and
of fcveral little balls, or tranfparent veficulse, which are
called iva. The fpungy fubftance furrounds each of thefe
yeficulae very clofely, and feems likewife to furnifli them
with difllindl ’fpungy coverings or calices.
The ligaments of the ovaria lie in the edges of the
pofterior pinions of the ligamenta lata, much in the fame
manner as the umbilical vein in the anterior or umbi¬
lical ligament of the liver. They are round ropes of a
filamentary texture, fixed by one extremity to the cor¬
ner of the fundus uteri, a little above and behind the le¬
vel of that fundus. They were formerly believed to be
hollow, and looked upon as vafa deferentia,
, The Fallopian tubes are two flaccid^ conical and ver-
■toiform canals,. Gtuated.moreorlefs. tranfverfely oa each
r O M Y. 275
•fide of the uterus, between the fundus and the lateral
parts of the pelvis, and included in the anterior duplica¬
tures or pinions of the ligamenta lata.
Each of them is fixed by its narrov/ extremities in the
corner of the fundus uteri, into which it opens, though
-by fo narrow a dutt, as hardly to admit a large briftle.
From thence their diameter augments by degrees all the
way to the other extremity, where it is about one third
-part of an inch. The body of the tubae goes in a winding
courfe, and their large extremity is bent toward the o-
v£ria.
Thefe large extremities are irregularly round, and ter¬
minate by a narrow orifice, a little plaited. and turned to¬
ward the ovarium, where it prefently expands in form
of a membranous fringe, full of plaits and incifures.
Thefe fringes are called the broad ends of the Fallopian
tubes.
Thefe tubes are compofed of flefliy fibres, whereof
fome are longitudinal, and fome obliquely circular, with
an intertexture of another very fine fubftance.
The anterior pinions of the ligamentum latum ferve
for a common or external coat to both tubse, and alfo to
connect them, in the fame manner as the mefentery con¬
nects the inteftines. From thence the tubas, and efpe-
cially their fringes, Come to be loofe
The pubes is that broad eminence at the lower part
of the hypogaftrium, between the two inguina, on which;
hairs grow at a certain age. This eminence is owing to
a particular thicknefs of the membrana adipofa which co¬
ver the fore-part of the ofla pubis, and fome linaifpor-
tions of the neighbouring mulcles'.
The longitudinal cavity which reaches from the middle-
and lower part of the pubes, within an inch of the anus,.
was by the ancients termed Jinus; and they called the
lateral parts of that cavity a he, which is a more proper
name than that of labia, commonly given to them. The
places where the alae are joined above and below are
termed commiflures; and may likewife be called the
extremities or. angles of the finus.
The alas are more prominent, and thicker above than
below, and fie nearer each other below than above.
They are chiefly compofed of the lk-in, eelluiar fubftance,
and fat. The exterior flrin is a continuation of that of
the pubes and inguina. It is more or lefs even, and
furniftied with a great number of glandular corpufeles,
from which a whitifh ceruminous matter may be expreft-
ed; and after a certain age it is likew-ife covered in the
fame manner with the pubes.
The inner fide of the alse is fomething like the red
portion of the lips of the mouth; and it is diftinguifhed
every where from the external fide by a kind of line, in
the fame manner as the red portion of the lips from the
reft of the fltin; being likewife thinner and fmoothev
than the outward fkin. A great number of pores are eb-
fervable in it, , and alfo numerous glandular corpufcles
which furnifh a liquor more or lefs febaceous.
Near the inner edge of the inner fjrfaces of tlie aks,
on each fide of the orifice of the canal of the uterus, we
find a fmall hole more vifible than the reft. Thefe two
holes are termed lacunae; and they communicate by two
fmall dufts with, the fame number of follicular bodies ly-'
ing-
276 A N A T
ing in the fubftance of the alas, and which maybe look¬
ed upon as.fmall pro dates anfwering to the glanduls pro-
ftaticae in males. When compreffed, they difcharge a
vifcid liquor.
Above.tbefuperior commiffure, a thin flat ligament runs
down from each finall branch of the ofla pubis, which pe¬
netrates the fat in the fubftance of each ala, and is loft
therein infenfibly near the edge. Thefe may be looked
upon as the ligamenta fufpenforia of the ala?. The infe¬
rior commiflure of the alts is very thin, or like a membra¬
nous ligament, and, together with the neighbouring parts
of the inner fides, it forms a foflula, termed navicularis
or fcaphoides. The fpace between the inferior commif-
fure and anus, termed perinxum, is about a large fin¬
ger’s breadth in length.
The other external parts are fituated in the Gnus, and
hid by the alas. Directly under the fuperior commiflure
lies the clitoris, with its covering called prasputium. A
little lower is the orifice of the urethra; and below that
is the orifice of the great canal of the uterus. The circum¬
ference of this orifice is bordered either by a membranous
circle, called hymen, or by flefhy portions, termed carun-
culae myrtiformes. On each fide of the clitoris begins a ve¬
ry prominent fold like a crifta, which runs down obliquely
on each fide of the orifice of the urethra. Thefe folds
are termed nymphae, and they might likewife be named
criftae clitoridis.
The clitoris appears at firft fight like a fmall imperfora¬
ted glans. Its upper and lateral fides are covered by a
kind of praeputium, formed by a particular fold of a por¬
tion of the inner fide of the ala;; which appears to be
glandular, and to difcharge a certain moifture, and its in-
fide is granulated.
By difle&ion, we difcover in the clitoris a trunk and
two branches, as in the penis, made up of a fpungy fub¬
ftance, and of very elaftic coats, but without any ure¬
thra. The trunk is divided into two lateral parts of a
middle feptum, from the bifurcation, to the glans, where
it is infenfibly loft.
The bifurcation of the trunk is on the edge of the car¬
tilaginous arch of the ofla pubis; and the branches which
refemble the roots of the corpora cavernofa are inferted
in the inferior rami of thefe bones, and in thofe of the
ofla ifchium, where they terminate by degrees ; but there
is fometimes a membranous tube on each fide, which
reaches to the tuberofity of the ifchium.
The trunk of the clitoris is fuftained by a ligamentum
fufpenforium fixed in the fymphyfis of the ofla pubis, and
containing this trunk in its duplicature, nearly as in the
other fex.
Four mufcles or fafciculi of flefliy fibres are inferted in
the trunk of the clitoris, two on each fide. One of
them runs down on the forefide of the neighbouring cor¬
pus cavernofum, and is inferted by a tendinous or apo¬
neurotic portion, partly in the extremity of the corpus
cavernofum, and partly in the tuberofity of the ifchium.
Thefe two mufcles are called ere&ores.
The other mufcle on each fide lies under the former,
and runs down on the fide of the urethra and great orifice
the uterus, all the way to the anus; increafing gra-
O M Y. Part VI.
dually in breadth in its pafiage, and terminating partly
like that which is called accelerator in males.
Thefe two mufcles furround very clofely the lateral
parts of the urethra, and of the great orifice. They ex¬
pand very much as they defcend, and are fpread on the
lower and lateral parts of the great orifice; for which
reafon feveral anatomifts have looked upon them as muf-
cular fphintters.
The nymphae, criftae clitoridis, or, as they may like¬
wife be termed, ake minores five internae, are two pro¬
minent folds of the. inner flcin of the great or external
alae, reaching from the praeputium of the clitoris to the
two fides of the great orifice of the uterus. They begin
very narrow, and, having increafed in breadth in their
courfe downward, they are again contraded at their low¬
er extremity.
They are of a fpungy fubftance, intermixed with
glands, feveral of which may be perceived by the naked
eye. Their fituation is oblique, their upper extremities
lying near each other, and the lower at a*much greater
diftance. In married women they are more orlefs flaccid
and decayed.
By the urethra in females, we mean the urinary dud,
the orifice of which is between the nymphae below the
glans of the clitoris. The fides of this orifice are a little
prominent and wrinkled, and perforated by fmall lacu¬
nae, from which a vifcid or mucilaginous liquor may be
fqucezed.
The body of the urethra is a fpungy dud of the fame
ftrudure as in males, but much fhorter, fituated diredly
under the trunk of the clitoris, and above the greajt
canal of the uterus, adhering to each of thefe canals be¬
tween which it lies, by membranous filaments. It pafles
under the cartilaginous arch of the ofla pubis, and ter¬
minates by an oblique opening at the neck of the bladder.
The great canal is fituated below the urethra, and a-
bove the extremity of the inteftinum redum, a little ob¬
liquely, being more raifed on the inner and back part,
than on the outer and fore part.
Its inner or pofterior extremity joins the extremity of
the body of the uterus, and furrounds its orifice much in
the fame manner as the duodenqm furrounds the pylorus,
or as the ilium is furrounded by the cxcum and colon.
The anterior extremity forms the great orifice, which
lies under that of the urethra, and above the foflula of
the inferior commiflure of the alaz.
The body of the canal is chiefly made up of a fpungy
fubftance, interwoven with numerous blood-veflels ; and
it is commonly longer and narrower in virgins, than in
married women.
Its inner or concave furface, lias feveral tranfverfe
rugae, and is covered by a particular membrane. The
rugae are formed by oblong narrow eminences, incur-
vated like portions of arches, placed wery near each o-
ther, and difpofed in fuch a manner as to divide the
cavity of the canal into an upper and lower fide.
By die union of the extremities of the upper and lower
rugae, a kind of raphe or future is formed on the right
and left fides; and both arches are fometimes interfeded
in the middle, and fo form two half-arches.
In
Tart VL A N A T
In general, thefe arches are very confiderahle in
young perfons; become graduaHy' more fuperficial in
married women, and are quite loft in time of delivery.
The inner or pofterior extremity of this great canal
furrounds the orifice of the uteruSj a little obliquely, in
fuch a manner, as that the upper fide of the canal lies
very near the orifice, and the lower fide at a greater
diftance from it, and this makes the extremity of the u-
terus appear to advance mere into the canal on the lower
than on the upper part.
The exterior or anterior extremity of the great canr.l
in virgins, and efpecially before the firft eruption of the
menfes, is commonly bordered by a circular membranous
fold, of different breadths, more or lefs fmooth, and
fometimes femilunar, which in fome fubje&s leaves but a
very fmall opening, in others a large opening, and in all
renders the external orifice narrower than the reft of the
cavity. This fold, called hymen, is formed by the union
of the internal membrane of the great canal with that on
the infide of the alas, and reprefents a membranous circle
of different breadths, and foraetimes uneven.
This membranous circle is commonly ruptured after
the confummation of marriage; is quite loft in delivery;
and afterwards only fome irregular portions of it remain,
which, from their fuppofed refemblance to myrtle leaves,
have been termed earuncuke myrtiformes. This circle
may likewife fuffer fome diforder by too great a flux of
the menfes, by imprudence, levity, and other particular
accidents.
Each fide of the anterior portion of the great canal is
covered exteriorly by a thin broad cavernous and vafeu-
lar plexus, called the plexus retiformis of that canal.
Thefe two planes run down on each fide of the clitoris
behind the nymphte, and likewife cover the urethra like
a collar, before they are fpread on the great canal.
This plexus is ftriftly united to the mufcular portions
commonly taken for accelerators or conftridtors, lying be¬
tween thefe portions and the lateral parts of the urethra
and of the great canal.
Sect. III. Of the Thorax.
By the thorax, we commpnly underftand all that part
$f the body which anfwers to the extent of the fternum,
ribs, and vertebras of the back, both outwardly and in-
yardly.
The thorax is divided into the anterior part called
commonly the breaft, the pofterior part called the back,
and the lateral parts called the right and left lides.
The external parts,of the thorax, befides the fkin and
membrana ad'pofa, are principally the mammae, and the
rr.ufcles which cover the ribs and, fill the fpaces between
them. In the mammae we fee the papilhe or nipples,
^nd a fmall coloured circle, which furrounds them.
The internal parts of the thorax are contained in the
large cavity of that portion of the trunk, called the
middle venter, or cavity of the hreaft. This cavity
is lined by "a membrane named pleura, and divided
ip to two lateral- cavities by a membranous feptum named
mediaftinum, which is a pr.oduetioa or duplicature of the
pleura.
Vol. I. Numb. 12.
O M Y. £77
Thefe, parts are the heart, pericardium-, trunk if the
aorta, a portion of the afpera artcria and of ihe cefopha-
gus, the dufhis la&eus or thoracicus, the lungs, <&c.
The hard parts, which form the fides of the cavity of
the thorax, are the twelve vertebras of the back, all the
ribs, and the fternum. The foft parts, which complete
the fides, are the membrane called pleura, which lines
the cavity, and the mufeuli inter-coftales, fterno-coftales,
and diaphragma.
AH thefe hard and foft parts taken together reprefent
a kind of qage, in fome meafure of a conical figure, flat¬
ted on the forefide, deprefted on the backfide, and in a
manner divided into two nooks by the figure of the verte¬
bra? of the back, and terminated below by a broad arched
bafis inclined backward. The intercoftal mufcles fill up
the interftices.betwixt the ribs, and fo complete the
fides of the cavity; the bafis is the diaphragm, and the
pleura not only covers the whole inner furface cf the ca¬
vity, but, by forming the mediaftinum, divides it into
two, one on the right hand, the other on the left.
M A M M A!.
The name of mammsc, or breafts, is given to two emi¬
nences more or lefs round, fituated in the anterior and a
little toward the lateral parts of the thorax.
The body of the mammae is partly glandular, and part¬
ly made up of fat; or it is a glandular fubftance mixed
with portions of the membrana adipofa, the cellulous
peiliculae of which fupport a great many blood-veffels,
lymphatics, and ferous or lactiferous dudts, together
with fmall glandular moilecuke which depend on the for¬
mer ; all of them being clofely furrounded by two mem¬
branes continued from the pellicula?.
The innermoft of t-hefe two membranes, which is in
a manner the bafis of the body of the mamma, is thick
and almoft flat, adhering to the mufculus peCloralis ma¬
jor. The fecond or externa! membrane is thinner, fornij
ing a particular integument for the body of the mam¬
ma, more or lefs convex, and adhering clofely to the
fkin.
The corpus adipofum of the mamma in particular,, is a
fpungy duller, more or lefs interlarded with fat, or a
colledion of membranous pellicula?, which, by the partir
cular difpofition of their outer fides, form a kind of mem¬
brane in fhape of a bag, in which all the reft of the cor¬
pus adipofum is contained. The anterior or outer por¬
tion of this bag, or that which touches the fkin, is ve¬
ry thin; but that fide next the peCloralis major, is thick.
The glandular body contains a white mafs, which is
merely a collection of membranous duCls, narrow at their
origin, broad in the middle, and which contraCl again as
they approach the papilla, near which they form a kind
of circle of communication. They are named duCtus
laCtiferi.
The coloured circle or difk is formed by the fkin, the
inner furface of which fuftains a great number of final!
glandular mollecula;. -They appear very plainly all over
the areola, even on the outfida, where they form little
flat heights or eminences at different diftances quite round
the circle. . .. .
4 A The
t
Part VI.
278 ANA
The tubercle which lies in the center of the areola, is
termed papilla, or the nipple. In women with child, or
who give fuck, it is pretty large, and generally longer or
higher than it is thick or broad.
The texture of the nipple is fpungy, elaftic, and liable
to divers changes of confidence, being fometimes harder,
fometimes more flaccid. It feems to be made up chiefly
of ligamentary fafciculi, the extremities of which form
the bafis and apex of the nipple.
Between thefe fpungy and elaftic fafciculi lie feven or
eight particular tubes, at fmall diftances from each other,
and all in the fame diredtion. Thefe tubes end at the
bafis of the papilla in the irregular circle of communica¬
tion of the lactiferous dudts, and at the apex, in the fame
number of almoft imperceptible holes or orifices.
The ufe of the mammae in the nourilhment of children
is known to all the world: But it is not certainly known
what the papilke and areolae in males can be defigned for.
Milk has been obferved in them, in children of both
lexes.
PLEURA and MEDIASTINUM.
The pleura is a membrane which adheres very clofely
to the inner furfaceof the ribs, fternum, and mufculi in-
ter-coftales, fub-coftales, and fterno-coftales, and to the
convex fide of the diaphragm. It is of a very firm texture,
and plentifully ftored with blood-veffels. and nerves, in
all which it refembles-the peritonaeum.
The cellular portion goes quite round the inner fur-
face of the thorax, but the membranous portion is difpo-
fed in a different manner. Each fide of the thorax has
its particular pleura, intirely diftindt from the other, and
making as it were two great bladders, fituated laterally
with refpedt to each other in the great cavity of the
breaft, in fuch a manner as to form a double feptum or
partition running between the vertebrae and the fternum,
their other fides adhering to the ribs and diaphragm.
This particular duplicature of the two pleurae is termed
mediaftinum. The two laminae of which it is made up
are clofely united together near the fternum and vertebrae;
but in the middle, and toward the lower part of the fore-
fide, they are feparated by the pericardium and heart.
A little more backward they are parted in a tubular form
by the cefophagus, to which they ferve as a covering;
and in the moft pofterior part, a triangular fpace is left
between the vertebrae and the two pleurae from above
downward, which is filled chiefly by the aorta.
The mediaftinum does not commonly terminate along
the middle of the ihfide of the fternum, but inclines to¬
ward the left fide.
The furface of the pleura turned to. the cavities of the
breaft, is continually moiftened by a lymphatic ferofity
which tranfudes through the pores of the membranous
portion.
The pleura ferves in genera! for an inner integument
to the cavity of the thorax. The mediaftinum cuts off
all communication between the two cavities, and hinders
©ne lung from preffing on the other when we lie on one
fide. It likewife forms receptacles for the heart, peri¬
cardium, - oafoghagus, <bc.
T O M Y.
THYMUS.
The thymus is an oblong glandular body, round on
the upper part, and divided below into two or three
lobes, of which that toward the left hand is the longeft.
In the foetus it is of a pretty large fize, lefs in children,
and very little in aged perfons.
The greateft part of the thymus lies between the du¬
plicature of the luperior and anterior portion of the me¬
diaftinum, and the great veffels of the heart; from whence
it reaches a little higher than the tops of the two pleurae^
fo that fome part of it is out of the cavity of the thorax.
Its particular inward ftrmfture and fecretions are not as
yet fufficiently known to determine its ufes, which however
feem to be defigned more for the foetus than for adults.
COR.
The heart is a mufcular body fituated in the cavity of
the thorax on the anterior part of the diaphragm, be¬
tween the two laminae of the mediaftinum. It is in fome
meafure of a conical figure, flatted on the fides, round
at top, and oval at the bafis. Accordingly, we confider
in the heart the bafis, apex, two edges, and two fides,
one of which is generally fiat, the other more convex.
Befides the mufcular body, which chiefly forms what
We call the heart, its bafis is accompanied by two appendices
called auriculae, and by large blood-veflels ; all thefe are
included in a membranous capfula, named pericardium.
It is hollow within, and divided by a feptum which
runs between the edges into two cavities, called ventri-
culi, one of which is thick and folid, the other thin and
foft. This latter is generally termed the right ventricle,
the other the left ventricle, though in their natural fituation
the right ventricle is placed more anteriorly than the left.
Each ventricle opens at the bafis by two orifices, one
of which anfwers to the auricles, the other to the mouth
of a large artery ; and accordingly one of them may be
termed the auricular orifice, the other the arterial ori¬
fice. The right ventrkle opens into the right auricle,
and into the trunk of the pulmonary artery; the left, in¬
to the left auricle, and into the great trunk of the aorta.
At the edges of thefe orifices are found feveral moveable
pelliculae, called valves byanatomifts ; of which fome are
turned inward, toward the cavity of the ventricles, called
triglochines or tricufpides ; others are turned towards the
great veflels, called femilunaresor figmoidales. The valvuke
tricufpides of the left ventricle are likewife termedmitrales.
The inner furface of the ventricles is very uneven,
many eminences and cavities being obfervable therein.
The moft confiderable eminences arc thick fkfhy pro-
dudtions called columnx. To the extremities- of thefe
pillars are faftened feveral tendinous cords, the other ends
of which are joined to the valvulae tricufpides. There
are likewife other fmall (hort tendinous ropes along both,
edges of the feptum between the ventricles. Thefe fmall
cords lie in an obliquely tranfverfe fituation, and form a.
kind of net-work at different diftances.
The cavities of the inner furface of the ventricles
are fmall deep foffulae or lacunae placed very near each
other, with fmall prominent interftices between them.
The
Part VI.
The fleftiy or mufcular fibres of which the heart is
made up, are difpofed in a very fingular manner, efpe-
cially thofe of the right or anterior ventricle, being either
bent into arches or folded into angles.
The fibres which are folded into angles are longer than
thofe which are only bent into arches. The middle of thefe
arches, and the angles of the folds, are turned towards
the apex of the heart, and the extremities of the fibres
towards the bafis. Thefe fibres differ not only in length,
but in their diredions, which are very oblique in all, but
much more fo in the long or folded fibres than in the
Ihort cnes, which are fimply bent.
Each ventricle is compofed of its proper diftind fibres,
but the left ventricle has many more than the right.
Where the two ventricles are joined, they form afeptum
which belongs equally to both.
The fibres which compofe the inner or concave furface
of the ventricles, do not all reach to the bafis ; fome of
them running into the cavity, and there forming the
flelhy columnae, to which the loofe floating portion of
the tricufpidal valves is faltened by tendinous ropes.
The valves at the orifices of 'the ventricles are of two
kinds. One kind allows the blood to enter the heart, and
hinders it from going out the fame way ; the other kind
allows the blood to go out of the heairt, but hinders it
from returning. The valves of the firif kind terminate
the auriculse, and thofe of the fecond lie in the openings
of the great arteries. The firfl are termed femulanar or fig-
moidal valves, the others triglochines, tricufpidal, or mitral.
The tricufpidal valves of the right ventricle are fixed
to its auricular orifice, and turned inward toward the
cavity of the ventricle. They are three triangulaf p.ro-
dudions, very fmooth and polilhed on that fide which is
turned towards the auricle; and on the fide next the ca¬
vity of the ventricle, they have feveral membranous and
'tendinous expanfions,- and their edges are notched or in¬
dented. The valves of the auricular orifice of the left
ventricle are of the fame fliape and ftrudure, but they
are only two in number ; and from fome fmall refem-
blance to a mitre, they have been named mitrales.
The femilunar valves are fix in number, three belong¬
ing to each ventricle, fituated at the mouths of the great
arteries; and they may be properly enough named val-
vulse arteriules.
The great artery that goes out from the left ventricle,
is termed aorta. As' it goes out, it turns a little toward
the right hand, and then bends obliquely backward to
form what is called aorta defcendens.
The trunk of the artery which goes out from the right
ventricle is called arteria pulmonaris. This trunk, as
itis naturally fituated in the thorax, runs firft of all di-
| redly upward for a final! fpace, then divides-laterally in¬
to two principal branches; one for each lung; that which
f goes to the right lung being the longeft, for a reafon
that fhall be given hereafter.
I The auricles are mufcular bags fituated at the bafis of
i; the heart, one towards the right ventricle, the other to-
I wards the left, and joined together by an inner feptum,
i and external ’ communicating fibres; much in the fain6
I manner with the ventricles ; one of them being named the
I right. auricle, the other the left. They are very uneven
279
on the infide, but fmoother on the outfide, and terminate
in a narrow, flat, indented edge, reprefenting a cock's
comb, or in fome meafure the ear of a dog. They open
into thefe orifices of each ventricle, which are named auri¬
cular orifices ; and they are tendinous at their opening,
in the fame manner as the ventricles.
The right auricle is larger than the left, and it joins
the right ventricle by a common tendinous opening. It
has two other openings united into one, and formed by
two large veins which meet and terminate there, almoft
in a dite<5t line, called vena cava fuperior and inferior.
The notched edge of this auricle terminates obliquely in
a kind of obtufe point, which is a fmall particular produc¬
tion of the great bag, and is turned toward the middle
of the bafis of the heart.
The left auricle is a kind of mufcular bag or refervoir,
of a pretty confiderable thicknefs, and unequally fquare,
into which the four veins open, called verue pulvionares,
and which has a diflin<5t appendix belonging to it, like a
third fmall auricle. This bag is very even on both fides.
The heart lies almoft tranfverfely on the diaphragm,
the greateft part of it being in the left cavity of the tho¬
rax, and the apex being turned toward the bony extre¬
mity of the fixth true rib. The bafis is toward the right
cavity; and both auricles, efpecially the right, reft on
the diaphragm.
The origin or bafis of the pulmonary artery is, in this
natural fituation, the higheft part of the heart on the
forefide p and the trunk of this artery lies in a perpendi¬
cular plane, which may be conceived to pafs between the
fternum and fpina dorfi. Therefore fome part of the
bafis of the heart is in the right cavity of the thorax;
and the reft, all the way to tlie apex, is in the left ca¬
vity ; and it is for this reafon that the mediaftinum is
turned toward that fide.
According to this true natural fituation of the heart,
the parts tommonly faid to be on the right fide are ra¬
ther anterior, and thofe on the left fide pofterior ; and
that fide of the heart which is thought to be the forefide,
is naturally the upper fide, and the backfide confequent-
ly the lower fide.
The lower fide is very flat, lying wholly on the-dia-
phragm; but the upper fide is a little convex through its
whole length, in the dir eft ion of the feptum between the
ventricles..
The heart, with all the parts belonging to it, is con¬
tained in a membranous capfula; called pericardium,
which is in fome meafute of a conical figure, and much
bigger than the heart It is not fixed to the bafis of the
heart, but round the large veins above the auricles, be¬
fore they fend off the ramifications, and round the large
arteries, before tbeir divifions.
The pericardium is made up of three laminae, the
middle and chief of which is compofed of very fine ten¬
dinous filaments, clbfely interwoven and crofficg each o-
ther in different direftions. The internal lamina feems
to be a continuation of the outer coat of the heart, au¬
ricles, and great veffels. The trunks of the aorta and
pulmonary artery have one common coat which contains
them both as in a fheath, and is -lined on the infide by a
cellular fubftance, chiefly in that fpace which Iks between
where
ANATOMY.
A N A T
where the trunks'-are turned to each other, and uhe hdes
of the (heath. There is but a very fmail portion of the
vena cava contained in the pericardium.
The pericardium is daftly connq&ed to the diaphragm,
not at the apex, but exadly at that place which anfwers
to the flat or lower fide of the heart; and it is a very
,difficult matter to feparate it from the diaphragm in dif-
-Jcciion.'
The internal lamina is perforated by an infinite num¬
ber of very fmail holes, through which a ferous fluid
continually tranfudes, in the fame manner as in the peri-
tonseum. This fluid being gradually colleded after death,
.makes what is called aqua pericardii, which is found in
confiderable quantities in opening dead bodies while they
remain freflr. Sometimes it is of a reddifli colour, which
may be owing to a tranfudation of blood through the
fine membrane of the auricles.
The heart and parts belonging to it are the principal
inftruments of the circulation of the blood. The two
ventricles ought to be confidered as two fyringes fo clofely
joined together as to make but one body, and furniftted
with fuckers placed in contrary diredlions to each other,
fo as that by drawing one of them, a fluid is let in, and
forced out again by the other.
The heart is made up of a fubftance capable of con-
traflion and dilatation. When the flefhy fibres of the
ventricles are contra&ed, the two cavities are leflened in
an equal and diredt manner, not by any contortion or
tv/iiting, as the falfe refemblance of the fibres to a fi¬
gure of eight has made anatomifts imagine. For if we
consider attentively in how many different directions, and
in how many places, thefe fibres crofs each other, as has
been already cbferved, we muff fee clearly, that the
whole ftrudture tends to make an even, direct, and uni¬
form contraction, more according to the breadth or
thicknefs, than according to the length of the heart, be-
caufe the number of fibres fituated tranfverfely, or al-
nroft tranfverfely, is much greater than the number of
longitudinal fibres. ■
The flefny fibres thus contracted, do the office of fuck¬
ers, bypreffing upon the blood contained in the ventricles,
.which blood being thus forced toward the bafis of the
heart, preffes the tricufpidal valves againd each other,
•opens the femilunares, and ruflies with impetuofity through
the arteries and their ramifications, as through fo many
elaftic'tubes..
The blood thus pulhed on by the contraction of the
ventricles, and afterwards preffed by the elaflic arteries,
enters the capillary veffels, and is frpm thence forced to
return by the veins to the auricles, which, like retire¬
ments, poyches, or antichambers, receive and lodge the
blood returned by the veins during the time of a new
contraction. This contraction of the heart is by anato-
mifis termed fyfiole.
The contraction or fytlole of the ventricles ceafes im¬
mediately, by the relaxation of their flelhy fibres; and
in that time the auricles, which contain the venal blood,
being contracted, force the blood through the tricufpidal
valves into the ventricles, the fides of which are thereby
dilated, and their cavities enlarged. This dilatation is
termed diqjlole.
O M Y. fart VI.
In-this manner.dogs the hearty.fcy the alternate fyftole
and diadole of its ventricles and auricles, pa fa the blood
through the arteries to all the parts of the body, and rer
ceive it again by the veins. This is called the circula¬
tion of the blood, which is carried on in three different
manners.
The firft and mod univerfal kind of circulation is that
by which almoft all the arteries of the body are filled by
the fyftole of the. heart, and the greateft part of the
veins evacuated by the diadole.
The feepndkind of circulation oppofite to theTirfi, is
through the coronary yeffels of the heart, the arteries of
which are filled with blood during the diaftole of the
ventricles, and the veins emptied during the fyftole.
The third kind of circulation is that of the left ven¬
tricle of the heart; through the venal duds of which a
fmail quantity of blood paffes, without going through
the lungs, which is tire courfe of all the remaining mals
of blood.
P U L M O N E S.
The lungs are two large fpungy bodies, of a reddifli
colour in children, greyiih in adult fubjeds, and bluifli
in old age; filling the whole cavity of the thorax, one v
being feared in the right fide, the other in the left, part¬
ed by the mediaftinum and heart, and of a figure anfwer-
ing to that of the cavity which contains them; that is,
convex next the ribs, concave next the diaphragm, and
irregularly flatted and depreffed next the mediaftinum
and heart.
They are diflinguifhed into the right and left lung;
and each of thefe into two or three portions called lobi,
of which the right lung has commonly three, or two and
a half, and the left lung two. The right lung is gene-;
rally larger than the left, anfwerably to that cavity of
the bread, and the obliquity, of the mediaflinum.
At the lower edge of the left lung, there is an in;
dented notch or finus oppofite to the apex of the heart,
which is therefore never covered by that lung, even in
the dronged infpiratiens, and confequemly the apex or
the heart and pericardium may always drike againd thq
ribs.
The fubdance of the lungs is almod all fpungy, bein^
made up of an infinite, number of membranous cells, and
of different forts of yefiels fpread among the cells, in in¬
numerable ramifications.
This whole mafs is covered by a membrane continued
from each pleura, which is commonly faid to be double;
but what is looked upon as the inner membrane is only
an expanfion and continuation of a cellular fubdance. ,
The veffels which comp.ofe part of the fubdance of
the lungs are of three or four kinds; the air-veffels,(
blood-veffels, and lymphatics, and the nerves. The air-
veifels make the chief part, and are termed bronchia. J
Thefe bronchia are conical tubes, compofed of an in¬
finite number of cartilaginous fragments, like fo many
irregular arches of circles, connetted together by a li-.
gamentary eladic membrane, and difpofed in fuch a man¬
ner as that the lower eafily infinuate themfelves within,
thofe above them.
They
Part VI. A N A
• ,;They are lined on the infide by a very fine membrane^
V'hich continually difeharges a mucilaginous fluid; and
in the fubftance of the membrane are a great number of
fmall blood-veflels.
The bronchia are divided in all dir eft ions into an infi¬
nite number of ramifications, v/hich diminilh gradually
in fize; and as they become capillary, change their car¬
tilaginous ftrudture into that of a membrane.
Each of thefe numerous bronchial tubes is widened at
the extremity, and thereby formed into a fmall membra¬
nous cell, commonly called a veficle. Thefe cells or
folliculi are clofely connected together in bundles; each
fmall branch producing a bundle proportionable to its
.extent and the number of its ramifications.
Thefe fmall veficular or cellulous bundles are termed
lobules; and as the great branches are divided into Imall
rami, fo the great lobules are divided into feveral fmall
ones. The cells, or veficles of each lobule have a free
communication with each other, but the feveral lobules
do not communicate fo readily.
i The lobules appear diftindtly to be parted by another
cellulous fubftance, which furrounds each of them in pro¬
portion to their extent, and fills up the interftices between
them. This fubance forms likewife a kind of irregular
membranous cells, which are thinner, loofer, and broad¬
er than the bronchial veficles.
All the bronchial cells are furrounded by a very fine
reticular texture of the fmall extremities of arteries and
veins, which communicate every way with each other.
The blood-veflels of the lungs are of two kinds ; one
common, called the pulmonary artery and veins ; the o-
ther proper, called the bronchia! arteries and veins.
The pulmonary artery goes out from the right ventri¬
cle of the heart; and its trunk having run almoft direftly
upward as high as the curvature of the aorta, is divided
into two lateral branches, one going to the right-hand,
called the right pulmonary artery^ the other to the left,
termed the left pulmonary, artery. The right artery
pafles under the curvature of the aorta, and is confe-
cpuently longer than the left. Ifhey both run to the
| lungs, and are difperfed-through their whole fubftance by
i ramifications nearly Kke thofe of the bronchia, and lying
ij in the fame directions.
I The pulmonary veins having been diftflbuted through
a the lungs in the fame manner, go out on each fide, by
rl two great-branches, which open laterally into the refer-
>| voir or mufcular bag of the. right auricle.
I Befides thefe capital blood-veflels, there are two o-
% thers called the bronchial artery and vein.
I Under the root of each lung, that is, under that part
a formed by the. fubordinate trunk of the pulmonary arte-
iry, by the trunks of the pulmonary veins, and by the
; trunk of the bronchia; there is a pretty broad membra-
Inous ligament, which ties the pofterior edge of each lung
cto the lateral parts of the vertebras of the back, from
;ffthat root all the way to the diaphragm.
1 The bronchia already deferibed are branches or rami-
:»Gcations of a large canal, partly cartilaginous, and pait-
\ly membranous, called trachea, or afpera aiteria. It
is fituated anteiiorly in the lower part of the neck, from
Whence it runs down into the thorax betwixt the two
ri Vox. I. Numb. ia. 3
T O M Y. 281
pleurae, through the upper fpice left between-the dupli-
cature of the mediaftinum, behind the thymus.
Having reached as low as the curvature of the aorta,
it divides into two lateral parts, one toward the right-
hand, the other toward the left, which enter the lungs,
and are diftributed through them in the manner already
faid. Thefe two branches are called bronchia, and that
on the right fide is Ihorter than that of the left.
The trachea is made up of fegments of circles or car¬
tilaginous hoops, difpofed in fuch a manner, as to form
a canal open on the back part, the cartilages not going
quite round; but this opening is filled by a loft glandular
membrane, which completes the circumference of the canal.
Each circle is about the twelfth part of an inch in
breadth, and about a quarter of that fpace in thicknefs.
Their extremities are round; and they are fituated ho¬
rizontally above each other, fmall interftices being left
between them, and the lower edge of the fuperior feg¬
ments being turned toward the upper edge of thofe next
below them.
They are all connected by a very ftrong elaftic mem¬
branous ligament fixed to their edges.
The canal of the afpera arteria is lined on the infids
by a particular membrane, which appears to be partly
flelhy or mufcular, and partly ligamentary, perforated
by an infinite number of fmall holes, through which a
mucilaginous fluid continually pafles, to defend the inner
furface of the trachea againft the acrimony of the air.
This fluid comes from fmall glandular bodies difperfed
through the fubftance of the membrane, but efpecially
from the glands, fomething larger than the former, which
lie on the outer or pofterior furface of that ftrong mem¬
brane, by which the circumference of the canal is com¬
pleted. The fame ftruflure is obfervable in the ramifi¬
cations of the trachea from the greateft to the fmalleft.
At the angle of the firft ramification of the trachea ar¬
teria, we find on both the fore and back Tides, certain
foft, roundifh, glandular bodies, of a bluilh or blackilh
colour, and of a texture partly like that of the thymus
already deferibed, and partly like that of the glandula
thyroides. There are other glands .of the fame kind, as
the origin of each ramification of the bronchia, but they
decreafe proportionably in number and fize. They are
fixed immediately to the bronchia, and covered by the
interlobular fubftance; and they feem to communicate
by fmall openings with the, cavity of the bronchia.
Refpiration is performed by organs of two kinds, one of
which may be looked upon as active, the other as paffive.
The lungs are of the fecond kind, and the fii ft compre¬
hends chiefly the diaphragm and intercoftal mufcles.
As foon as the intercoftal mufcles begin to contradt,
the arches of the ribs are raifed together with the fter-
num, and placed at a greater diftance from each other ;
by which means the cavity of the thorax is inlarged on
the two lateral and anterior fides.
At the fame inftant the diaphragm is flatted or
brought toward a plane by two motions, which are ap¬
parently contrary; that is, by the contradHon of the
diaphragm, and the dilatation of the ribs in which it is
inferted. The external furface of the thorax being thus
in a manner increafed, and the cavity of the bronchia
f 4 B _ being
282 A N A T
being at the Tame time, and by the fame means, lefs re¬
fitted or prefled upon ; the ambient air yields to the ex¬
ternal preflure, and infinuates itfelf into all the places
where the preflure is diminifhed, that is, into the afpera
arteria, and into all the ramifications of the bronchia all
the way to the veficles. This is what is called infpiration.
This motion of infpiration is inftantaneous, and ceafes
in a moment by the relaxation of the intercoftal mufcles ;
the elattic ligaments and cartilages of the ribs bringing
them back at the fame time to their former fituation.
This motion, by which the ribs are deprefled and brought
nearer each other, is termed expiration.
The pulmonary arteries and veins which accompany
the bronchia through all their ramifications, and fur-
round the vefieles, tranfmit the blood through their nar¬
row capillary extremities, and thereby change or modify
it, at leaft in three different manners.
The firft change or modification which the blood un¬
dergoes in the lungs, is to have the cohefions of its parts
broken, to be attenuated, pounded, and, as it were, re¬
duced to powder. The fecond is, to be deprived of a
certain quantity of ferum, which tranfpires through the
lungs, and is what we commonly call the breath. The
third is to be in a manner reanimated by the impreffionof
the air.
OESOPHAGUS.
The cefophagus is a canal partly mufcular, and partly
membranous, fituated behind the trachea arteria, and
before the vertebras of the back, from near the middle
of the neck, down to the lower part of the thorax; from
whence it pafles into the abdomen through a particular
hole of the fmall or inferior mufcle of the diaphragm,
and'ends at the upper orifice of the ttomach.
It is- made up of feveral coats, almoft in the fame
manner as the ftomach, of which it is the continuation.
The firft coat, while in the thorax, is formed only by the
duplicature of the pofterior part of the mediaftinum, and
EXPLANATION
Figure i. fhews the contents of the thorax and abdo¬
men, in fitu.
1, Top of the trachea,, or wind-pip'e. 2 2, The inter¬
nal jugular veins. 3.3, The fubclavian veins. 4, The
vena cava defcendens. 5, The right auricle of the
heart. 6, The right ventricle: 7, Part of the left-
ventricle. 8, The aorta afcendens. .9, The pulmo¬
nary artery. 10, The right lung, part of which is
cut off to (hew the great blood-vefTels. n. The left
lung entire. 1212, The anterior edge of the dia¬
phragm. 13 it. The two great lobes of the liver.
14, The ligamentum rotundura. ij, The gall blad¬
der. 16, The ftomach. 17 17, The jejunum and
ilium. iS, The fpleen.
Fig. 2. Shews the organs fubfervient to the chylo-
pcetic vifcera,—with thofe of urine and generation. ,
1 1, The under fide of the two great lobes of the liver,
a, Lobulus Spigelii. 2, The ligament urn rotundum.
O M Y. Part VI.
is wanting above the thorax and the neck, where the
outer coat of the cefophagus is only a continuation of
the cellular fubftance,belonging to the neighbouring parts.
The fecond coat is mufcui.:.', being made up of feveral
ftrata of flelhy fibres.
The third is termed the nervous coat, and is like that
of the ftomach and inteftines.
The fourth or innermott coat refembles in fome mea-
fure that of the inteftines, except that inttead of the
villi it has fmall and very ihort papillse. Through the
pores of this coat, a vifcid lympha is continually dif-
charged.
The oefophagus from its very beginning, turns a little
to the left hand, and naturally runs along the left ex¬
tremities of the cartilages of the afpera arteria. The
thyroid gland, pharynx and larynx, ftiall be defcribed
in another place.
DUCTUS THORACICUS.
The thoracic duel is a thin tranfparent canal, which
runs up from the receptaculum chyli, along the fpina
dorfi, between the vena azygos and aorta, as high as the
fifth vertebra of the back, or higher. From thence it
pafles behind the aorta toward the left hand, and afeends
behind the left fubclavian vein, where it terminates in
fome fubjefts by a kind of veficula, in others by feve-
ral branches united together, and opens into the back-
fide of the fubclavian vein near the outfide of the inter¬
nal jugular.
This canal is plentifully furnilhed with femilunar
valves turned upward. Its opening into the fubclavian
vein in the human body, is, in the place of valves, co¬
vered by feveral pelliculse, fo difpofed as to permit the
entrance of the chyle into the vein, apd hinder the
blood from running into the duft. It is fometitnes double,
one lying on each fide, and fometimes it is accompanied
by appendices called pampiniformes.
o f PLATE XIX.
3, The gall-bladder. 4, The pancreas. 5, The
fpleen. 6 6, The kidneys. 7, The aorta defcen¬
dens. 8, Vena cava afcendens. 9 9, The renal
veins covering the arteries. 10, A probe under the
fpermatic vends and a bit of the inferior mefenteric
artery, and over the ureters. 11 11, The ureters.
12 12, The iliac arteries and veins. 13. The reiflum
inteftinum. 14, The bladder of urine.
Fig. 3. Shews the chylcrpcetic vifcera, and organs fub- '
fervient to them, taken out of the body intire.
A A, The under fide of the two; great lobes of the liver.
B, Ligamentum rotunduhi C* The gall-bladder.
D, Dudus cyfticus. E, Du&us hep^ticus. F, Duc¬
tus communis choledochus. G, Vena portarum.
H, Arteria hepatica. I I, The ftomach. K K, Ve-
nse & arteriae gaftro-epiploicse, dextrae & finiftraf.
L L, Venae-& arteriae co’ronariae ventriculi. M, The
fpleen. NN,.Mefocolon, with it^ veffds. OOO, In-
-teftinum -
Plate. gEH j f'j
Part VI. A N A T
teftinum colon. P, One of the ligaments of the co¬
lon, which is a bundle of longitudinal mufcular fibres.
Q^QQJ^ Jejunum and ilium. R R, Sigmoid flex¬
ure of the colon with the ligament continued, and o-
ver S, The redlum inteftinum. T T, Levatores ani.
U, Sphinfter ani. V, The place to which the pro-
ftate gland is connected. W, The anus.
Fig. 4. Shews the heart of a foetus at the full time,
with the right auricle cut open to (hew the foramen
ovale, or paflage between both auricles.
a, The right ventricle, b, The left ventricle, c c, The
outer fide of the right auricle ftretched oUt. dd, The
pofterior fide, which forms the anterior fide of the fep-
tum. e. The foramen ovale, with the membrane or
valve which covers the left fide, f, Vena cava infe¬
rior palling through g, A portion of the diaphragm.
EXPLANATION
O M Y 28 j
Fig. 5. Shews the heart and large veflels of a foetus at
the full time.
a, The left ventricle, b. The right ventricle, c, A
part of the right auricle, d, Left auricle, e e, The
right branch of the pulmonary artery, f, Arteria.
pulmonalis. g g, The left bra'neh of the pulmonary
artery, with a number of-its largell branches diffe&ed
from the lungs, h, The canalis arteriofus i, The
arch of the aorta, k k. The aorta defcendens. 1, The
left fubclavian artery. m, The left carotid artery,
n. The right carotid artery, o. The right fubcla¬
vian artery. p, The'origin of the right carotid and
right fubclavian arteries in one common trunk, q, The
vena cava fuperior or defcendens. r, The right
common fubclavian vein, s, The left common fub¬
clavian vein.
N. B. All the parts defcribed in this figure are to be
found in the adult, except the canalis arteriofus.
of PLATE XX.
Fig. 1. Reprefents the under and poflerior fide of the
bladder of urine, 6r.
a. The bladder. b b, The infertion of the ureters,
c c. The vafa deferentia, which convey the femen
from the tefticles to d'd. The veficulae feminales,—
and pafs through e, The proftate gland, to difcharge
themfelves into f, The beginning of the urethra.
Fig. 2. A tranfverfe feftion of the penis,
g g, Copora cavernofa penis, h, Corpus cavernofum ure¬
thras. i, Urethra, k. Septum penis. 11, The feptum
between the corpus Cavernofum urethrae, and that of
the penis. •
Fig. 3. A longitudinal feftion of the penis,
m m, The corpora cavernofa penis, divided by o, The
feptum penis, n, The corpus cavernofum glandis^
which is the continuation of that of the urethra..
Fig. 4. Reprefents the female organs of generation,
a,'That fide of the uterus which is next the cs farrum.
1, Its fundus. 2, Its cervix, b b. The Fallopian
or uterine tubes, which opens into the cavity of the
uterus;—but the other end is open within the pelvis,
' and furrounded by c c. The fimbriae, d d, The ova-
ria. e, The os internum uteri, or mouth of the womb,
f f, The ligamenta rotunda, which pafles without the
belly, and is fixed to the labia pudendi. g g. The
cut edges of the ligamenta lata, which connefts the
uterus to the pelvis. h. The infide of the .vagina,
i. The orifice of the urethra, k. The clitoris fur-
rounded by (1,) the praeputium. in m, The labia
pudendi. n n. The nymphae.
Fig. 5. Shews the fpermatic dufls of the tefiicle filled
with mercury.
A, The vas deferens. B, Its beginning, which forms
the pofterior part of the epididymis. C, The middle
of the epididymis, compofed of ferpentine duifts.
D, The head or anterior part of the epididymis un¬
ravelled. e e e e, The whole duds which compofe
the head of the epididymis unravelled, f The va¬
fa efferentia. g g, Rete teftis. h h, Some redili¬
neal duds which fend off the vafa efFerentia. i i. The
fubftance of the tefticle.
Fig. 6. The right tefticle intire, and the epididymis
filled with mercury.
A, The beginning of the vas deferens. B, The vas de¬
ferens afcending towards the abdomen. C, The po¬
fterior part of the epididymis, named globus minor.
D, The fpermatic vefiels inclofed in cellular fubftance.
E, The body of the epididymis. F, Its head, named
globus major. G, Its beginning from the tefticle,
H, The body of the tefticle,. inclofed in the tunica
aJbugineav
Sect. IV. Of the Brain audits Appendages,
The name of brain is given to all that mafs which
fills the cavity of the cranium, and which is immediate¬
ly furrounded by two membranes called meninges or
matres.
This general mafs is divided into three particular por¬
tions;, the cerebrum or brain properly fo called, the ce¬
rebellum, and medulla oblongata. To thefe three parts
.a fourth is added, , which fills the great canal of the fpina..
dorfi, by the name of medulla fpinalis, being a continua¬
tion of the medulla, oblongata.
TTiet
2S4 A N A T
The men'mgESor membranes are two in number. The
hrft is named dura mater; the fecond pia mater, which
is again divided into two; the external lamina being
termed arachnoides, the internal retaining the common
name of pia mater.
DURA MATER.
The dura mater inclofes the brain and all it appen¬
dages. It lines the infide of the cranium, and fupplies
the place of an internal pcriolleum, being fpread in all
the holes and depreffions, and covering all the eminences
in fuch a manner as to prevent their being hurtful to the
brain.
The dura mater is made up of two laminae, adhering
very clofely together; the fibres of both croffing each
other obliquely. Their texture is very clofe and Itrong,
appearing to be partly ligamentary and partly tendinous.
The dura mater flicks clofely to the cranium by a great
number of filaments of the external lamina, which enter
the pores of the bones chiefly at the futures both above
and below; and by penetrating thefe joints, they com¬
municate with the external periofleum.
Thefe adhefions are formed intirely by the external
lamina. The internal lamina is very fmooth and polifh-
ed on the infide, which is alfd continually moflened by a
fine fluid difcharged through its pores, much in the
fame manner as in the peritonaeum and pleura.
The folds of the dura mater are made by the internal
lamina; and three of them form particular fepta; one
of which is fuperior, reprefenting a kind of mediaftinum
between the two great lobes of the brain. The fecond
is in a middle fituation, like a diaphragm between the ce¬
rebrum and cerebellum; the third is inferior, between the
lobes of the cerebellum. The fuperior feptum is longi¬
tudinal, in form of a feythe, from whence it is termed the
falx of the dura mater. The middle feptum is tranf-
verfe, and might be called the diaphragm of the brain.
The inferior feptum is very fmall, and runs down be¬
tween the lobes of the cerebellum.
Befides tfcefe large folds, there are two fmall lateral
ones on each fide of the fella turcica, each running from
the pofterior to the anterior clynoid apophyfis on the
fame fide. Thefe two folds, together with the anterior
and pofterior parts of the fella turcica, form a fmall foffula
ir which the pituitary gland is lodged.
The elongations of the dura mater are productions of
both laminae, which go beyond the general circumference,
.and pafs out of the cranium.
The moft confiderable of thefe elongations pafles
.through the great occipital foramen, and runs down the
common canal of the vertebrae in form of a tube, lining
the infide of that canal, and inclofing the medulla fpi-
ralis, by the name of the dura mater of that medulla.
The other elongations accompany the nerves out of .the
cranium in form of vaginae, which are more numerous
than the nervous trunks reckoned in pairs.
There are twm particular elongations which form the
periiloneum of the orbits, together with the vaginae of
the optic nerves. Thefe orbitary elongations go out by
th)S,lphenoidal or fuperior orbitary fiflures, and, increa-
O M Y Part VI.
ftng in breadth in their paflage, line the whole cavity of
the orbits, at the edges of which they communicate with
the pericranium and periofteum of the face.
The elongations of the dura mater which accompany
the blood-veftels through the foramina of the cranium,
unite with the pericranium immediately afterwards. Such,
for inftance, are the elongations which line the foflula:
of the foramina lacera or jugalaria, and the bony or ca¬
rotid canals of the apophyfis petrofa, &c.
The dura mater contains in its duplicature feveral par¬
ticular canals, into which the venal blood not only of
that membrane, but of the whole brain, is carried,
Thefe canals are termed finufes, and fome of them are
difpofed in pairs, others in uneven numbers; that is,
fome of them are placed alone, in a middle fituation;
others are difpofed laterally on each fide of the brain.
The moft; ancient anatomifts reckoned only four;, to
which we can now add four times as ma'-.y.
Thefe finufes are in the duplicature of the dura mater;
and their cavities are lined on the infide by particular
very fine membranes. They may be enumerated in this
manner.
The great finus of the falx, or fjperior longitudinal
fious, which was reckoned the firft by the ancients.
Tw'o great lateral finufes, the fecond and third of the
ancients.
The finus called iorcular Herophili, the fourth of the
ancients.
The fmall finus of the falx, or inferior longitudinal finus.
The pofterior occipital finus, which is fometimes double.
Two inferior occipital finufes, which form a portion of
a circle, and may likewife be called the ivferior lateral
Six finus petrofi, three on each fide, one anterior;
one middle or angular, and one inferior. The two in¬
ferior, together with the occipital finufes, complete a
circular finus round the great foramen of the OS occipitis.
The inferior tranfverfe finus.
The fuperior tranfverfe finus.
The two circular finufes of the fella fphenoidalis; one
fuperior, and one inferior.
Two finus cavernofi, one on each fide.
Two orbkary finufes, one on each fide.
All thefe finufes communicate with each other, and
with the great lateral finufes by which they difeharge
themfelves into the internal jugular veins, which are on¬
ly continuations of thefe lateral finufes. They likewife
unload themfelves partly into the vertebral veins, which
communicate with the fmall lateral or inferior occipital
finufes; and partly into the external jugular veins, by
the orbitary iinufes which communicate with the venss
angulares, frontales, nafales, maxillares, &c. as the'la-
teral finufes likewife communicate with the vense occipi-
tales, &c.
Thus the blood which is carried to the dura mater,
&c. by the external and internal carotid, and by the
vertebral arteries, is returned to the heart by the exter¬
nal and internal jugular and vertebral veins ; fo that when
the pailage of the blood is obftruded in any particular
place, it finds another way, by virtue of thefe communij
cations, though not with the fame eafe.
Part VI.
A N
A T O’ M Y. 285
PI A MATER.
This membrane furrounds the whole mafs of the
brain mere particularly than the dura mater. It ad¬
heres very clofely to the braip, and is connected to the
dura mater only by the veins which open into the finufes.
The pia mater is made up of two very fine laminae, the
outermoft of which covers pretty uniformly all the
convex furface of the brain, and lines in the fame man¬
ner all the concave or inner furface of the dura mater.
The internal lamina forays a great number of plicae, du-
plicatures, and fepta, which infinuate themfelves into all'
the folds and circumvolutions, and between the different
ffrata of the cerebrum and cerebellum.
CEREBRUM.
The cerebrum properly fo called, is a kind of me¬
dullary mafs, of a moderate confiftence, and of a grey-
iih colour on the outer furface, filling all the fuperior
portion of the cavity of the cranium, or that portion
which lies above the tranfverfe feptum. The upper part
of the cerebrum is of an oval figure, like half an egg cut
lengthwife. It is flatted on the lower part, each lateral
half of which is divided into three eminences, called
lobes, one anterior, one middle, and one pofterior.
The fubftance of the cerebrum is of two kinds, diftin-
guifhed by two different colours; one part of it, which
is fofteft, being of a greyifh or afh colour; the other,
which is more folid, being very white. The afn-colour-
ed fubftance lies chiefly on the outer part of the cere¬
brum like a kind of cortex, from whence it has been
named fubfiantia corticalis or cinerea. The white fub-
fiance occupies the inner part, and is named fubjiantia
viedullaris, or limply fubjiantia alba.
The cerebrum is divided into two lateral portions, fe-
parated by the falx, or great longitudinal feptum of the
dura mater. They are generally termed hemifpheres.
Each of thefe portions is divided into two extremities,
one anterior and one polferior, which are termed the lobes
of the cerebrum, between which there is a large inferior
protuberance which goes by the fame name ; fo that in
each hemifphere there are three lobes, one anterior, one
middle, and one pofterior.
The anterior lie upon thefe parts of the os frontis
which contribute to the formation of the orbits and of
the frontal finufes, commonly called the anterior folfae
of the balls cranii. The polterior lobes lie on the tranf¬
verfe feptum; and the middle lobes, in the middle or
lateral foflae of the balls cranii.
' Each lateral portion of the cerebrum has three fides ;
one fuperior, which is convex; one inferior, which is
| Uneven ; and one lateral,, which is flat, and turned to
I the falx. Through the whole furface of thefe three fides
we fee inequalities or windings like the circumvolutions
of inteftines, formed by waving llreaks or furrows very
! deep and narrow', into which the fepta or duplicatures of
'the pia mater infinuate themfelves, and thereby feparate
thefe circumvolutions from each other.
Near the furface thefe circumvolutions are at fome di-
* Vol.T. Numb. 12. -j-‘
ftance from each other, reprefenting lerpentine ridges;
and in the interllices between them, the fuperficial veins
of the cerebrum are lodged, between the two laminte of
the pia mater, from whence they pafs in the duplicatuie
of the dura mater, andfo open into the finufes.
Thefe circumvolutions are fixed through their whole
depth to the fepta or duplicatures of the pia mater, by
an infinite number of very fine vafcular filaments.
When they are cut tranfverfely, we obferve that the
fublfantia alba lies in the middle of each circumvolution,
fo that there is the fame number of internal medullary
circumvolutions as of external cortical ones.
Having cut off the falx from the crifta gaili, and
turned it backward; if we feparate gently the two la¬
teral parts or hemifpheres of the cerebrum, we fee'
a longitudinal portion of a white convex body, which is
named corpus callofum. It is a middle portion of the,
medullary Jubilance, which under the inferior finus of the
falx, and alfo a little toward each fide, is parted from
the mafs of the cerebrum, to which it is fimply conti¬
guous from one end of that finus to the other.
The furface of the corpus callofum is covered by
the pia mater, which runs in between the lateral por¬
tions of this body, and the lower edge of each hemi¬
fphere.
The corpus callofum becomes afterwards continuous'
on each fide with the medullary fubllance, which
through all the remaining parts of its extent is intirely
united with the cortical fubftance, and together with the
corpus callofum forms a medullary arch or vault of an
oblong or oval figure. After which we will obferve a
medullary convexity much fmaller than thatwhichis com-,
mon to the whole cerebrum, but of the fame form ; fo
that it appears like a medullary nucleus of the cerebrum.
Under this arch are two lateral cavities, much longer
than they are broad, and very (hallow, feparated by a
tranfparent medullary feptum. Thefe cavities are named
the anterior, fuperior, or great lateral ventricles of the
cerebrum.
The lateral ventricles are broad, and rounded at thefe
extremities which lie next the tranfparent feptum.
They go from before backward, contrafting in breadth,
and feparating from each other gradually in their pro-
grefs. Afterwards they bend downward, and return
obliquely from behind forward, in a courfe like the turn¬
ing of a ram’s horn, and terminate almoll under their fu¬
perior extremities. Thefe ventricles are lined with a
thin membrane.
The tranfparent partition or feptum lucidum, lies di-
redtly under the raphe or future of the corpus callofum,
of which it is a continuation. It is made up of two me¬
dullary laminae, more or lefs feparated from each other
by a narrow medullary cavity, fometimes filled with a
ferous fubllance.
The feptum lucidum is united by its lower part, to the
anterior portion of that medullary body, called the for¬
nix •with three pillars.
T he fornix being cut olF and inverted, or quite remo¬
ved, we fee firll of all a vafcular web, called plexus
choraides, and feveral eminences more or lefs covered by,
the expanfion of that plexus. There are four pairs,/.-f.
3 4 C eminences
A N A T
eminences which follow each other very regularly, two
large, and two {mail. The firft two great eminences are
named corpora Jlriata; and the fecond, thalami nervo¬
rum opticorum. The four fmall eminences are clofely
united together; the anterior being called nates, and
the pofterior tejles. Immediately before thefe tubercles
there is a fingle eminence, cs\\<t& glandula pinealis.
The corpora Jlriata got that name, becaufe in fcraping
th- m with the knife we meet with a great number of
white and afh-coloured lines alternately difpofed, which
are only the tranfverfe fe&ion of the medullary and cor¬
tical laminse, mixed together in a vertical pofuion in the
balls of the cerebrum.
They lie in the bottom of the fuperior cavity of the
lateral ventricles, which they referable in fome meafure
in lhape, their anterior parts being near the feptum luci-
dum, from which they feparate gradually as they run
backward, and diminilh in fize.
The thalami vervorurn opticorani are fo named, be¬
caufe thefe nerves arife chiefly from them. They are
two large eminences placed by the fide of each other,
between the pofterior portions or extremities of the
copora ftriata. Their figure is femi-fpheroidal and a
little oval; and they are of a whitilh colour on the fur-
face ; but their inner fubftance is partly greyilh and part¬
ly white.
Thefe two eminences are clofely joined together, and
at their convex part they are fo far united as really to
Become one body, the whitilh outer fubftance being con¬
tinued uniformly over them both.
Immediately within this whitilh common fubftance thefe
two eminences are clofely contiguous till about the
middle of their thicknefs ; and from thence they fepa¬
rate infenfibly toward the bottom, where by the fpace
left between them a particular canal is formed, named
the third ventricle, one extremity of which opens for¬
ward, the other backward.
At the bottom thefe two eminences are elongated down¬
ward toward both fidcs, into two thick, round, whitilh
ccrds, which feparate from each other like horns, by a
large curvature; and afterwards by a fmall curvature
turned forward in an oppofite direflion to the former,
and reprefenring the tip of an horn, they approach each
other again. The fize of thefe ropes diminilhes gradu¬
ally from their origin to their anterior reunion.
The tubercles are four in number, two anterior, and
two pofterior; adhering together as if they made but one
body, fituaied behind the union of the thalami nervorum
opticcrum. Their furface is white, and their inner fub¬
ftance greyilh, and are called nates and tefles.
Dire&ly under the place where the tubercles of one
fide are united to thefe of the other fide, lies a fmall mid¬
dle canal, which communicates by its anterior opening
with the third ventricle, trader the thalami nervorum op¬
ticorum, and by its pofterior opening with die fourth
ventricle, which belongs to the cerebellum.
Where the Convex parts of the two anterior tubercles
join thefe pofterior convex parts of the thalami nervorum
opticorum, an interftice or opening is left between thefe
four convexities which communicates with the third ven-
Uycle, and with the fmail middle canal. Inftead of the
O M Y. Part VI.
ridiculous name of anus, which has been given to thiso- 4
pening, it may be called foramen cojnmune pojlerius. i
The glandula pinealis is a fmall foft greyilh body, a- |
bout the fize of an ordinary pea, irregularly round, and !
fometimes of the figure of a pine apple, fituated behind j
the thalami nervorum opdeorum, above the tubercula
quadrigemina. It is fixed like a fmall button to the low¬
er part of the thalami by two very white medullary pe- ;
dunculi, which at the gland are very near e^ch other, :
but feparate almoft tranfverfely toward the thalami. \
It feems to be moftly of a cortical fubftance, except ■
near the footftalks, wdrere it is fomething medullary.
Between the balls of the anterior pillar of the fornix, i
and the anterior part of the union of the optic thalami, '
lies a cavity or foffula named infundibulum. It runs '
down towards the balls of the cerebrum, contrading gra-
dually, and terminates in a ftreight courfe, by a fmall i
membranous canal, in a foftilh body fituated in the fella !
turcica, named glandula pituitaria. The infundibulum ;
opens above, immediately before the optic thalami, by ,
an oval hole named foramen commune anterius, andcon-
fequently communicates with the lateral ventricles.
At the lower part of the thalami nervorum opticorum,
diredly under their union, lies a particular canal, called
the third ventricle of the cerebrum.
This canal opens forward into the infundibulum under |
the foramen commune anterius, by which it likewife com-
municates with the lateral ventricles. It opens backward ;
under the foramen commune pofterius, between the tha- i
lami and tubercula quadrigemina, oppofite to the fmall |
middle canal which goes to the cerebellum.
The plexus choroides is a very fine vafcular texture, :
confifting of a great number of arterial and venal ramifi- '
cations, partly colleded in two loofe fafciculi, which lie ;
one in each lateral ventricle, and partly expanded over ;
the neighbouring parts, and covering in a particular man- :
ner the thalami nervorum opticorum, glandula pinealis, ii
tubercula quadrigemina, and the other adjacent parts J
both of the cerebrum and cerebellum, to all which it >
adheres.
T he pituitary gland is a fmall fpongy body lodged in i
the fella turcica between the fphenoidal folds of the dura |
mater. It is of a Angular kind of fubftance, which Teems j
to be neither medullary nor glandular. On the outlide '
it is partly greyilh and partly reddilh, and white within. .
It is tranfverfely oval or oblong, and on the lower part .
in fome fubjefts it is divided by a fmall notch into two
lobes, like a kidney-bean. It is covered by the. pia .
mater as by a bag, the opening of which is the extre- j
mity of the infundibulum, and it is furrounded by the
fmail circular finales which communicate with the finus j,
cavernofi..
CEREBELLUM.
The cerebellum is contained under the tranfverfe fep-
turn of the dura mater. It is broader laterally than on
the fore or back Tides, flatted on the upper' fide, and -
gently inclined both ways, anfwerable to the feptum,
which ferves it as a kind of tent or cieling. On the
lower fide it is rounder; and on the backfide it is divided
Part VI. A N A T
into two lobes, feparated by the occipital feptum of the
dura mater.
It is made up, like the cerebrum, of two fubflances,
but it has no circumvolutions on its furface. Its fulci
are pretty deep, and difpofed in fuch a manner as to
form thin flat ftrata, more or lefs horizontal, between
which the internal lamina of the pia mater infmuates it-
felf by a number of fepta equal to that of the ilrata.
Under the tranfverfe feptum, it is covered by a vaf-
cular texture, which communicates with the plexus cho-
roides. It has two middle eminences called appendices
vermifonnes ; one anterior and fuperior, which is turned
forward; the other pollerior and inferior, which goes back¬
ward. There are like wife two lateral appendices, both
turned outward.
Betides the divifion of the cerebellum into lateral por¬
tions or into two lobes, each of thefe lobes feems to be
likewife fubdivided into three protuberances, one anterior,
one middle or lateral, and one potterior.
When we feparate the two lateral portions or Iqbes,
having firft made a pretty deep incifion, we difeover Brft
of all the pofterior portion of the medulla oblongata; aiid
in the pollerior furface of this portion, from the tuber-
cula cuadrigemina, all the way to the pollerior notch in
the body of the cerebellum, and a little below that
notch, v/e obferve an oblong cavity which terminates
backward like the point of a writing pen. This cavity is
what is called the fourth ventricle.
At the beginning of this cavity, immediately behind the
fmall cemmon canal which lies under the tubercles, we
meet with a thin medullary lamina, which is looked up¬
on as a valve between that canal and the fourth ventricle.
A little behind this lamina, the cavity grows wider to¬
wards both hands, and then contrails again to its firll
frze. It is lined interiorly by a thin membrane, and
feems oftentimes to be dillinguilhed into two lateral parts,
by a kind of fmall groove, from the valvular lamina to
the point cf the calamus feriptorius.
This membrane is a continuation of that which lines the
fmall canal, the third ventricle, infundibulum, and the
two great ventricles.
On each fide of this ventricle the medullary fubftance
forms a trunk which expands itfelf in form of laminae
through the cortical if rat a. When one lobe of the cere¬
bellum is cut vertically from above downward, the me- -
dullary fubifance will appear to be difperfed in ramifica¬
tions through the cortical fubitance. Thefe ramifica¬
tions have been named arbor vita;; and the two trunks
from whence thefe different laminse arife, are called pt-
dmeuti cerelellt.
MEDULLA OBLONGATA.
The medulla oblongata is a medullary fubifance fitua-
ted from before backward in the middle part of the bafes
of the cerebrum and cerebellum without any difeontimia-
tion, between the lateral parts of both thefe bafes ; and
therefore it may be looked upon as one middle medullary
bails common to both cerebrum and cerebellum, by the
reciprocal continuity of their medullary fubifances,
through the great notch in the tranfverfe feptum of the
O M Y. 287
dura mater; which common bails lies immediately on
that portion of the dura mater which lines the bails
of the cranium. The medulla oblongata is therefore
juifly effeemed to be a third general part of the whole
mafs of the brain, or as the common produdtion or united
elongation of the whole medullary fubitance of the cere¬
brum and cerebellum.
It is extremely diiEcult, if not altogether impoilible,
to examine or demonilrate it as we ought, in its natural
fituation; but we are obliged to do both on a brain in¬
verted.
The lower fide of the medulla oblongata in an inverted
fituation, prefents to our view feveral parts which are in
general either medullary productions, trunks of nerves,
or trunks of blood;veifels.
The chief medullary productions are thefe : The large
or anterior branches of the medulla oblongata; which
have likewife been named crura anteriora, femora, and
brachia medulls oblongatae, and pedunculi cerebri: The
tranfverfe protuberance, called likewife proceffus annula¬
ris, or pons varolii: The fmall or pofterior branches, called
pedunculi cerebelli, or crura pofteriora meduUse oblonga¬
tae : The extremity or cauda of the medulla oblongata,
with two pairs of tube rcles, one of which is named cor¬
pora olivaria, the other corpora pyramidalia; and to all
thefe productions we muft add a production of the infua-
dibulum and two medullary papillae.
The great branches of the medulla oblongata are two
very confiderable medullary fafciculi, the anterior extre¬
mities of which are feparated, and the pofterior uni¬
ted, fo that, taken both together, they reprefent a Ro¬
man V.
The tranfverfe, annular, or rather femi-annular pro¬
tuberance, is a medullary production, which feems at fii It
fight to furround the poiterior extremities of the great
branches; but the medullary fubftance of this protube¬
rance is in reality intimately mixed with that of the two
former. Varolius, an ancient Italian author, viewing
thofe parts in an inverted fituation, compared the two
branches to two rivers, and the protuberance to a bridge
over them both, , and from, thence it has the name of pons
Varolii.
The fmall branches of the medulla oblongata are la¬
teral productions of the tranfverfe protuberance, which
by their roots feem to encompafs that medullary por¬
tion in which the fourth ventricle or calamus feriptorius ■
is formed.
The extremity is no more than the medulla oblongata .
contracted in its pa/Tage backward to the anterior edge
ot the great foramen of the os occipitis, where, it termi¬
nates in the medulla fpinalis ; and in this part of it feve¬
ral things are to be taken notice of.. We fee firft of all,
four eminences^ two named corpora olivaria, and the o-
ther two corpora pyramidalia. Immediately afterwards,,
it is divided into two lateral portions by two narrow
grooves, one on the upper fide, the other on the lower.
They both run into the fubftance of the medulla, .as be¬
tween two cylinders, flatted on that Tide by which they
are joined together.
When we feparate thefe ridges with the fingers, we'
obferve a crucial intertexture of feveral fmall medullary
cords*,
A 'N A T
cords, which go obliquely-from the fuhftance of one late¬
ral portion into the fubflance of the other.
The corpora olivaria and pyramidalia are whitifh emi¬
nences fituated longitudinally near each other on the
lower fide of the extremity or cauda, immediately be¬
hind the tranfverfe or annular protuberances. The cor¬
pora olivaria are in the middle, fo that the interfticc be¬
tween them, which is a kind of fuperficial groove, an-
i'wers to the inferior groove of the following portion.
‘ The corpora pyramidalia are two lateral eminences
depending on the olivaria. Thefe four eminences are fi-
tnated on the lower half of the medulla.
The tubercula /nammillaria, or papillae medullares,
which are fituated very hear the production of the infun¬
dibulum, have: been taken for glands.
Thefe tubercles feem to have fome immediate relation
to the roots or bafes of the anterior pillar of the fornix.
The beak or tube of the infundibulum is a very thin
production from the Tides of that cavity; and it is ftrength-
ened by a particular coat given to it by the pia mater.
It is bent a little from behind forward, toward the glan-
tlula pinealis, and afterwards expands again round this
gland.
The membrana arachnoides, or external lamina of the
pia mater, appears to be very diftinftly feparated from
the internal lamina, in the interfiices between all thefe
eminences on the lower fide of the medulla oblongata,
without any vifible cellular fubftance between them.
From this medulla oblongata, arife almofi: all the
nerves which go out of the cranium through the diffe¬
rent foramina by which its bans is perforated. It like-
wife produces the medulla fpinalis, which is no more
than a common elongation of the cerebrum and cerebel¬
lum, and of their different fubftances ; and therefore the
medulla oblongata may juftly be faid to be the firft ori¬
gin or primitive fource of all the nerves of the human
body.
MEDULLA SPINALIS.
The medulla fpinalis is Only an elongation of the ex¬
tremity of the medulla oblongata; and it has its name from
its being contained in the bony canal of the fpina dorfi ; con-
fequentlya continuation or common appendix of the cere¬
brum or cerebellum, as well becaufe of the two fubftances
of which it is compofed, as becaufe of the membranes by
which it is invefted.
The dura mater, after it has lined the whole internal
furface of the cranium, goes out by the great occipital
fbramen, and forms a kind of funnel, in its progrefs
downward through the bony canal of the vertebrae.
The fpinal marrow is made up of a cortical and me-
dtillary fubftance, as the cerebrum and cerebellum ; but
with this difference, that the afh-coloured fubftance lies
within the other; and in a tranfverfe fedlion of this me¬
dulla, the inner fubftance appears to be of the figure of
art horle-lhoe.
The body of the medulla fpinalis runs down all the
way to the firft vertebra of the loins, where it terminates
in a point. Tbs fize of it is proportionable to that.of
O M Yt Part VI.
the bony canal, fo that it is larger in the vertebrseof the
neck than thofe of the back.
It fends off from both the fore and back fides, at dif¬
ferent diftances, flat fafciculi of nervous filaments. The
anterior and pofterior fafciculi having got a little beyond
the edge of the medulla, unite in pairs, and form on
each fide a kind of knots, called ganglions by anatomifts,
each of which produces a nervous trunk. Thefe gangli¬
ons are made up of a mixture of cortical and medullary
fubftance, accompanied by a great number of fmall blood-
veffels.
The dura mater, which invefts the medulla, fends out
on each fide the fame number of vaginae as there are:
ganglions and nervous trunks. Thefe vaginae are pro-
dudtions of the external lamina; the internal lamina, which
is very fmooth and polifhed on the infide, being perfo¬
rated by two fmall holes very near each other, where>
each vagina goes off, through which holes the extremi¬
ties of each anterior and pofterior fafciculus are tranf-,
mitted ; and immediately after their paffage through the
internal lamina, they unite.
( Uses of the Brain and its Appendages in general.
Malphighi was the firft who difeovered the brain to
be a gland, or an organ fitted to feparate fome particular
fluid from the mafs of blood.
The infinite number of fmall fecretory clufters ftrain
or filter the mafs of blood carried to them by the nu¬
merous ramifications, and feparate from it an exceflive-
ly fine fluid ; the remaining blood being conveyed back
by the fame number of venal extremities, into the finufes
of the dura mater, and from thence into the jugular and
vertebral veins.
This fubtile fluid, commonly called animalfpirit,
nervous juice, or liquor of the nerves, is continually
forced mto the medullary fibres of the white portion of
the cerebrum, cerebellum, medulla oblongata, and me¬
dulla fpinalis ; and by the intervention of thefe fibres
fupplies and fills the nerves, which are a continuation of
them.
PERICRANIUM.
Besides the external integuments of the head, the
flein, hair, and cellular fubftance, there is an aponeuro¬
tic expanfion which covers the head like a cap, and is
fpread round the neck and on the (houlders like a riding-
hood.
This aponeurofis is very ftrong on the head, and it
appears to be made up at leaft of two ftrata of fibres crof-
fing each other. As it is fpread on the neck it becomes
gradually thinner, and ends infenfibly on the clavicles.
It fends out a production on each fide, from above down¬
ward, and from without inward, which having paffed o-
ver the fuperior extremity of the mufculus fterno-maftoi-
daeus, runs behind that mufcle toward the tranfverfe apo-
phyfes of the vertebrae of the neck, where it communi-,
cates with the ligamenta inter-tranfverfalia.
The external furface of all the bones of the head, as
well
Part VI. A N A T
well as of all the other bones of the human body, ex¬
cept the teeth, is covered by a particular membrane, of
which that portion which particularly inverts the cranium
is named pericraniav/, and that which inverts the bones
©f the face is Amply termed periofteum.
The pericranium is made up of two laminse clofely u-
nited together. The internal lamina, which has by fome
been taken for a particular periofteum, covers immediate¬
ly all the bony parts of this region; and the external la¬
mina has been looked upon as a membrane diftinft from
the internal, and named pericranium particularly.
Sect. V. Of the Eye.
The Globe or Ball of ibe Eye.
The globe of the eye is made up of feveral proper
parts, fome of which being more or lefs folid, reprefent
a kind of (hell formed by the union of feveral membra¬
nous ftrata called the coats of the globe of the eye; and
the other parts being more or lefs fluid, and contained in
particular membranous capfulae, or in the interftices be¬
tween the coats, are termed the humours of the globe of
the eye. Thefe capfulae are likewife termed coats.
The coats of the globe of the eye are of three kinds.
Some form chiefly the fhell of the globe; fome are ad¬
ditional, being fixed only to a part of the globe; and
fome are capfular, which contain the humours. The
coats which form the fliell are, three in number. The ex¬
ternal is termed tunica fclerotica or cornea; the middle
coat is named chorcides; and the third or innermort, re¬
tina. The additional coats are two; one called
nofa or albuginea, which forms the white of the eye;
and the other, conjunctiva. The capfular tunicas are
likewife two, the vitrea, and Ci-yftallina.
The Coats of the Eye.
The moft external, thickert, and ftrongeft coat of the
eye is the fclerotica or cornea, and it inverts all the o-
ther parts of which the globe is compofed. It is divided
into two portions, one called cornsa opaca, the other
cornea lucida, which is Only a fmall fegment of a fphere,-
fituated anteriorly.
The cornea opaca is made up of feveral ftrata clofely
connefted together, and is of an hard compact: texture
refembling parchment. About the middle of its porte-
, rlor convex portion, where it Tuftatns the optic nerve, it
is in a manner perforated, and thicker than any where
elfe.
The cornea lucida is made up in the like manner of
feveral ftrata or laminae clofely united, and appears to be
a continuation of the opaque portion or fclerotica, though
of a different texture.
This portion is fomething more convex than the cor¬
nea ppaca, fo that it reprefents the fegment of a fmall
fphere added to the fegment of a greater.
_ The cornea lucida is perforated by a great number of
imperceptible pores, through w'hich a very fine fluid is con¬
tinually difcharged, tfhich foon afterwards evaporates.
The fecond coat of the globe of the eye is the cho-
VOl- I. No. 13. 3
O M Y. 289
roides, which is of a blackiftr colour, more or lefs incli¬
ned to red, and adheres, by means of a great number of
fmall veflels, to the cornea opaca, from the infertion
of the optic nerve, all the way to the union of the two,
corneas, where it leaves the circumference of the globe,
and forms a perforated feptum, by which the fmall feg¬
ment of the globe is feparated from the greater. This
portion goes commonly by the particular name of uvea,
which was formerly given to the whole fecond coat; and
as it is of different colours in.feveral fubjefts, it has like¬
wife got the name of/>/r.
The anterior portion'or perforated feptum of the cho-
roides has the name of uvea, and the hole near the cen¬
tre of this feptum is ciWod pup ill a. The anterior lami¬
na of the fame feptum is termed iris, and the radiated
plicae of the porterior lamina, procejfus ciliares. Be¬
tween the two laminse of the uvea, we find two very thin
planes of fibres which appear, to be flefhy, the fibres of
one plane being orbicular, and. lying round .the circum¬
ference of the pupilla, and thofe of the other being ra¬
diated, one extremity of which is fixed to the orbicular
plane, the other to the great edge of the uvea.
The plicae or proceffus ciliares are fmall radiated and
prominent duplicatures of the pofterior lamina of the u-
vea, and their circumference anfwers partly.to that of the
white ring of the external lamina. They are oblong,
thin plates; their pofterior extremities, or thofe next’
the choroides, being very fine and pointed; the others,
or thofe next the pupilla, broad, prominent, and ending
in acute angles.
The (pace between the cornea luci.'a and uvea con¬
tains the greateft part of the aqueous humour, and com-,
municates by the pupilla with a very narrow fpace behind
the uvea* or between that and the cryftalline. Thefe
two fpaces have been termed the two chambers of the a-
queous humour, one anterior* the other pofteriot.
The third coat of the eye is of a very different texture
from that of the other two coats. It is white, foft, and
tender, and in a manner medullary, or like a kind of
pafte fpread upon a fine reticular web. It appears to be.
thicker than the choroides, and reaches from tlie infer¬
tion of the optic nerve, to the extremities of the ciliary
radii, being equally fixed to the choroides Through its'
whole extent. At the place which anfwers to the infer¬
tion of the optic nerve, we obferve a -fmall depreflion,
in which lies a.fort of medullary button terminating in a.
point; and from this depreflion blopd-veffels go out,
which are ramified on all fides through the fubftance of
the retina.
716(? Humours of the Eye and their Capsul-e..
The vitreous humour is a clear and very liquid gela-"
tinous fluid, contained in a fine tranfparent capfula, called
tunica vitrea, together with which it fioVms a niafs nearly
of the confidence of the white of an egg. ‘It fills the great-
eft part of the globe of the eye, that is, almoft all that
fpace which anfwers to the extent of the retina, except a
fmall portion behind the uvea, where it forms a foffula, in
which the cryftalline is lodged.
The tunica vitrea is compofed exteriorly of two lami-1
f - 4 D mas
nx very clofely conne&ed, which quite furround the
mafs of humour, and are immediately applied to the retina,
all the way to the great circumference of the corona cili-
aris; but from thence to the circular edge of the foffula'
of the cryflalline, this coat is full of radiated fulci, whiclr
contain the proceffus ciliares of the uvea.
The internal lamina of the tunica vitrea gives off,
through the whole fubllance of this humour, a great num¬
ber of cellular elongations or fepta.
The radiated fulci of the tunica vitrea, which may be
termed fulci ciliares, are perfe&ly black, when the coat
is taken out of the body.
The cryftalline is a fmall lenticular body, of a pretty5
firm confidence, and tranfparent like cryftal. It is con¬
tained in a tranfparent membranous capfula, and lodged
in the anterior foflula of the vitreous humour.
The figure of the cryftalline is lenticular, but its po-
fterior fide is more convex than the anterior, the con¬
vexity of both fides being very rarely equal.
The cryftalline capfula or coat is formed by a duplica
ture of the tunica vitrea. The external lamina covers
the anterior fide of the cryftalline mafs ; the internal la¬
mina covers the backfide, and likewife the foflula vitrea,
in which the cryftalline is lodged.
The anterior portion fwells when macerated in water,
and then appears to be made up of two pellicula?, united
by a fine fpungy fubftance.
The aqueous humour is a very limpid fluid, refembling
a kind of lympha or ferum, with a very fmall degree of
vifeidity; and it has po particular capfula like the cry¬
ftalline and vitreous humours. It fills thefpace between
the cornea lucida and uvea, that between the uvea and
the cryftalline, and the hole of the papilla, Thefe two
fpaces are called the chambers of the aqueous humour,
and they are diftinguifhed into the anterior and pofterior.
The anterior chamber, which is vifible to every body,'
between the cornea lucida and uvea, is the largeft; the
Other between the uvea and cryftalline is very narrow,
efpecially near the papilla, where the uvea almoft touch¬
es the cryftaliine.
57* Tunica Albuginea and Muscles of Globe
of the Eye.
The tunica albuginea, called commonly the white of
the eye, and which appears on all the anterior convex
fide of the globe, from the cornea lucida, to the begin-
ping of the pofterior fide, is formed chiefly by the tendi¬
nous expanfion of four mufcles.
There are .commonly fix mufcles inferred in the globe
of the human eye, and they are divided into four recSi
and two obliqui. The re&i are again divided, from
their fituation, into fuperior, inferior, internal, and ex¬
ternal ; and from their fumftions, into a levator, dh-
prefior, adduffor, and abduffor. The two oblique muf¬
cles are dencminated from their fituation and fize, one
being named ohliquus fuperior or major, the other e-
lliquus inferior, or minor. The obliquus major is
likewife called trochlearis, becaufe it pafles through a
fmall cartilaginous ring, as over a trochlea or pulley.
The mufeuli retfti are fixed by their pofterior extremi-
0 M Y. Part VI.
ties at the bottom of the orbit near the foramen opti-
cum in the elongation of the dura mater, by fhort nar¬
row tendons. From thence they run wholly flelhy, to¬
ward the great circumference of the convexity of the
globe, between the optic nerve and cornea lucida, where*
they are expanded into flat broad tendons which touch
each other, and afterwards unite. Thefe tendons are'
fixed firft of all by a particular infertion in the circumfe¬
rence juft mentioned, and afterwards continue their adhe-
fion all the way to the cornea, forming the tunica albu¬
ginea. •
The fuperior oblique mufcle is fixed to the bottom of
the orbit, by a narrow tendon, in the fame manner as
the redti, between the redtus fuperior and internus. From
thence it runs on the orbit oppofite to the interftice be¬
tween thefe two mufcles, toward the internal angular a-
pophyfis of the os frontis, where it terminates in a thin
tendon, which having pafled through a kind of ring as o--
ver a pulley, runs afterwards in a vagina obliquely back¬
ward under the redtus fuperior, that is between that muf¬
cle and the globe; and, increafing in breadth, it is inferred''
pofteriorly and laterally in the globe, near the redlus ex-
ternus.
The ring through which this mufcle pafles, is partly
cartilaginous and partly ligamentary. The cartilaginous
portion is flat, of a confiderable breadth, and like half a
ring. The ligamentary portion adheres ftrongly to the'
two ends of the cartilage, and is fixed in the fmall foflula
which lies in the orbit, on the angular apophylis of the
os frontis. By means of this ligament, the ring is in
fome meafure moveable, and yields to the motions of the
mufcle. To the anterior edge of the ring, a ligamenta¬
ry vagina is fixed, which inverts the tendon all the way to
its infertion in the globe.
The obliquus inferior is fituated obliquely at the low--
er fide of the orbit, under the redtus inferior, which
confequently lies between this mufcle and the globe. It
is fixed by one extremity a little tendinous, to the root
of the nafal apophyfis of the os maxillare, near the edge
of the orbit between the opening of the dudtus nafalis,
and the inferior orbifary fiflure.
From thence it pafles obliquely, and a little tranfverfe-
ly backward, under the redius inferior, and is fixed in
the pofterior lateral part of the globe by a flat tendon,
oppofite to, and at a fmall diftance from the tendon of ■
the obliquus fuperior, fo that thefe two mufcles do in
fome meafure furround the outer pofterior part of the
globe.
The redlus fuperior moves the anterior portion of the
globe upward when we lift up the eyes; the redlus infe-'
rior carries this portion downward; the internus, toward
the nofe; and the externus, toward, the temples.
When two neighbouring redti adt at the fame time,
they carry the anterior portion of the globe obliquely to¬
ward that fide which anfwers to the diftance between
thefe two mufcles ; and when all the four mufcles adt
fucceflively, they turn the globe of the eye round, which
is what is called rolling the eyes.
The ufe of the oblique mufcles is chiefly to counterba¬
lance the adtion of the redti, and to fupport the globe in
all the motions already mentfoned. This is evident from
their
Part Vll ANA
their infertions, which are in a contrary diredlion to thofe
of the refti, their fixed points with relation to the mo¬
tions of the globe being placed forward, and thofe of
the refti backward, at the bottom of the orbit.
The rettus externus, by being bent on the globe, not
only hinders it from being carried outward, but alfo pre¬
vents the indirect motions of the obliqui from thralling
it out of the orbit toward the temples.
jTA? Supercilia, tf/n/MuscuLi Frontales, Occi-
PI T ALES, SUPERCILIARES.
The fupercilia, or ,eye-brows, are the two hairy arches
fituated at the lower part of the forehead, between the
top of the nofe and temples, in the fame direction with
the bony arches which form the fuperior edges of the
orbits. Their colour is different in different perfons,
and often in the fame perfon different from that of the
hair on the head; the hairs of which they confill are
llrong and pretty ftiff, and they lie obliquely, their roots
being turned to the nofe, and their points to the temples.
The fupercilia have motions common to them with
thofe of the Ikin of the forehead, and of the hairy fealp.
By thefe motions the eye-brows are lifted up, the Ikin of
the forehead is wrinkled more or lefs regularly and tranf-
verfely; and the hair and almoll the whole fcalp is mo¬
ved, but not in the fame degree in all perfons. The
eye-brows have likewife particular motic- s which con-
tradl the Ikin above the nofe; and all thefe different mo¬
tions are performed by the following mufcles.
The frontal mufcles are two thin, broad, flelhy planes*
of unequal lengths, lying immediately behind the Ikin
and membrana adipofa, on the anterior parts of the fore¬
head, which parts they cover from the root,of the nofe,.
and through about two thirds of the arch of the eye¬
brows on each fide, all the way to the lateral parts of tire
hair on the forehead. At the root of the nofe they
touch each other as if they were but one mufcle; and at
this place their fibres are fiiort and longitudinal, or ver¬
tical.
Thefe mufcles are fixed by the inferior extremities of
their flefhy fibres immediately in the Ikin, running thro’
the membrana adipofa. They cover the mufeuli fuper-
ciliares, and adhere clofely to them by a kind of inter¬
texture. By the fame fibres they feem to be inferted in
the angular apophyfes of the os frontis, and to be blend¬
ed a little with the mufcles of the palpebras and nofe.
The upper extremities of their fleihy fibres are fixed in
the external or convex furface of the pericranium. Each
of their lateral portions covers a portion of the temporal
mufcle on the fame fide, and adheres very clofely to 'it.
The occipital mufcles are two final!, thin, broad, and
very flvort flefhy planes, fituated on the lateral parts of
the occiput, at fome diftance from each other. They
are inferted by the inferior extremities of their flefhy fibres
in the fuperior tranfverfe line of the os occipitis,. and al¬
fo a little above it. From thence they, run up obliqusly
from behind forward, and are fixed in ,the inner concave
! furface of the pericranium.
The breadth of thefe mufcles reaches from the pofte-
r rior middle part of the occiput, toward the maftoid a-
T O M Y. 291
pophyfis, and they dhmnifh unequally in length as they
approach the apophyfes.
Thefe four mufcles feem always to aft in concert, the
occipitales being only auxiliaries or afftflants to the fron-
tales, the office of which is to raife the fupercilia, by
wrinkling the fkin of the forehead.
The mufeuli fuperciliares are flefhy fafciculi, fituated
behind the fupercilia, and behind the inferior portion of
the mufeuli fiontales, from the root of the nofe to above
one half of each fuperciliary arch. They are ftrongly
inferted, partly in the fynarthrofis of the offa nafi, with
the os frontis, where they come very near the proper mufr
cles of the nofe, and partly in a finall neighbouring
portion of the orbit. From thence they firft run up a
little, and afterwards more or lefs in the direftion of the
eye-brows. They arc made up of feveral fmall fafciculi
of oblique fibres, all fixed by one end in the manner al¬
ready faid, and by the other partly in the lower extre¬
mity of the mufcles by which they are covered, an4
partly in the fkin of the fupercilia.
The aftion of thefe mufcles is to deprefs the eye-s
brows, to bring them clofe together, and to eontraft the
fkin of the fore-head immediately above the nofe, into
longitudinal and oblique wrinkles, and the fkin whiefy
covers the root of the nofe into irregular tranfverfe
wrinkles.
The Paepebr-k and Memerana Conjunctiva.
The palpebrae are a kind of veils or curtains placed^
ttanfverfely above and below the anterior portion of the
globe of the eye; and accordingly there are two eye¬
lids to each eye, one fuperior, the other inferior. The
fuperior is the largeff and moft moveable in man. They
both unite at each fide of the globe, and the places of
their union are termed angles one large and internal,,
which is next the. nofe, the other fmall or external,,
which is next the temples,.
The palpebrae- are made up of common and proper
parts. The common parts are the fkin, epidermis, and
membrana adipofa. The proper parts arc the mufcles,
the tarfi, the punfta-or foramina lachrymalia, the mem¬
brana conjunftiva, the glardula lachrymalis, and the par¬
ticular ligaments which fuftain the tarfi. The tarfi and
their ligaments are in fome meafure the bafis of all thefe
parts.
The tarfi are thin cartilages forming the principal part
of the edge of each paipebra: and they are broader at
the middle than at the extremities. Thofe of the fupe¬
rior palpebrae are fomething lefs than half an inch in
breadth ; but in the lower palpebrar they are not above
the fixth part of an inch ; and their extremities next the
temples are more flender than thofe next the nofe.
Thefe cartilages are fuited to the borders and curva¬
ture of the eye-lids. The lower edge cf the faperior
cartilage and upper edge of- the inferior, terminate e-
qually, and both may be termed the ciliary edges. Tire
oppofite edge of the upper tarfus is fomething, femi-cir--
cular between its two extremities; but that of the infer
rior tarfus is more uniform, and both, are thinner than;
the ciliary edges.
292 A N A T
The broad Irgamsriis of the tar6 are- membranous e-
lo.ngations formed by the union of the periofteum of the
orbits and pericranium along both edges of each orbit.
The fuperior ligament is broader than the inferior, and
fixed to the'fuperior edge of the upper cartilage, as the
inferior is to the lower edge of the lower cartilage, fo
that thefc ligaments and thetarfi, taken alone or without
the other parts, reprefent palpebrae.
The membrana conjun&iva is a thin membrane, one
portion of which lines the inner furface of the palpebra.
At the edge of the orbit it has a fold, and is continued
from hence on the anterior half of the globe of the eye,
adhering to the tunica albuginea; fo that the palpebrce
and the forepart of the globe of the eye are covered by
one and the fame membrane, which does not appear to
be a continuation of the pericranium, but has fome connec¬
tion with the broadriigaments of the tarfi.
The name of conjunftiva is commonly given only to
that part which covers the globe, the other being called
limply the internal membrane of’the palpebrae ; but we
inay very well name the one membrana eculi conjunc¬
tiva, and the other membrana palpebrarum conjunfliva.
That of the palpebrse is a very fine membrane adhering
very clofc, and full of frnall capillary blood-veflels. It is
perforated by numerous imperceptible pores, through
which a kind of ferum is continually difeharged.
The conjundliva of the eye adheres by the interven¬
tion of a cellular fubftance, and is confequently loofe,
and as it were ipoveable * and it may be taken hold of and
feparated in feveral places from the tendinous coat. It
is of a whitilh colour; and being tranfparent, the albu¬
ginea makes it appear perfectly white : Thefe two coats
together forming what is called the white of the eye.
The lachrymal gland is white, and of the number of
thofe called conglomerate glands. It lies under that de-
preflion obfervable in the arch of the orbit near the tem¬
ples, and laterally above the globe of the eye. It is a
little flatted, and divided as it were into two lobes, one
of which lies toward the infertion of the mufculus rectus
fuperior, the other toward the re&us externus. It ad¬
heres very clofely to the fat which furrounds the mufcles
and pofterior convexity of the eye, and it was formerly
named glandula innominata.
From this gland feveral fmall dufls go out, which run
down almoft parallel to each other, through the fub¬
ftance of the tunica interna or conjundivr of the fuperior
palpebra, and afterwards pierce it inwardly near the fu¬
perior edge of the tarfos.
The flat edge of each palpebra is adorned with a row'
of hairs called cilia, or the eye-lajhes. Thofe belong¬
ing to the fuperior palpebra are. bent upward, and longer
than thofe of the lower palpebra which are bent down¬
ward. Thefe rows are placed next the flein, and are not
fingle, but irregularly double or triple. The hairs are
forger hear' the middle of the palpebrse than toward the
extremities, and for about a quarter of an inch from the
inner angle they are quite wanting.
Along the fame border of the palpebne, near the inter¬
nal membrane, or toward the eye, we fee a row of fmall
bolts which may be named foramina or pur.fi a ciliaria.
O M Y. Part VI.
They are the orifices of the fame number of fmall ob-
long glands which lie in the fulci, channels, or grooves
on the inner furface of the tarfus. Thefe little glands
are of a whitilh colour ; and when fqueezed, a feba-
ceous matter like foft wax, is difeharged through the
pundta ciliaria.
Near the great or internal angle of the palpebrce, the
flat portion of their edges.terminates in another which is.
rounder and thinner. By the union of thefe two edges
an angle is formed.
At this place, the extremity of the flat portion is di-
ftirguilhed from the round portion by a fmall protube¬
rance or papilla, which is obliquely perforated by a fmall
hole in the edge of each palpebra. Thefe two fmall
holes are very vifible, and often more fo in living than
in dead bodies, and they are commonly named punfla
lachtymalia, being the orifices of two fmall du<5ts which,
open beyond the angle of the eye into a particular refer-
voir, termed facculus lachrymalis, v/hich ftiall be de*
feribed in the article of the nofe.
The pumfta lachrymalia are oppofite to each other, and
fo they meet when the eye is (hut. Round the orifice of
each of thefe points, we obferve a whitifli circle which
feems to be a cartilaginous appendix of the tarfus, and
which keeps the orifice always open.
The caruncula lachrymalis is a fmall reddilh, granu¬
lated, oblong body, fituated precifdy between the inter¬
nal angle of the palpebras and globe of the eye. The
ftibftance of it feems to be wholly glandular. We dif-
cover upon it a great number of fine hairs covered by.
an oily, yellowiih matter; and on the globe of the eye,
near this glandular body, we fee a femilunar fold, form-,
ed by the conjundliva, the concave fide of which is turn
ed to the uvea, and the convex fide to the nofe.
The Muscles of the Palpebr.®.
The mufcles of the palpebrse are commonly reckon¬
ed to be two, one peculiar to the upper eye-lid, named
levator palpebra fuperioris ; the other common to both,
called mufculus orbicularis palpebrarum. '
The levator palpebrse fuperioris is a very thin mufcle,-
fituated in the orbit above, and along the retftus fuperior;
oculi. It is fixed to the bottom of the orbit, by a frail
narrow tendon, near the foramen opticum, between tire,
pofterior infertions of the redus fuperior and obliquus -
fuperior. From thence its flefliy fibres run forward on
the redus, increafing gradually in breadth, and termi •
nate by a very broad aponeurofis in the tarfus of the fu¬
perior palpebra.
By the mufcolus palpebrarum obliquus we underftand;
all that extent of flefliy fibres, which by a. thin ftratum
furrounds the edge of each orbit, and from thence, with--
out any interruption, covers the two palpebrse all the way
to the cilia. Almoft ail of them have a common tendon
fituated tranfverfely between the internal angle of the
eye and the nafal apophyfis of tfie os maxiilare. This
is a flender ligamentary tendon, ftrongeft: where it is
fixed in the bone, and diminiftiing gradually as it ap-.
proaches'the angle’of the psdpebrse, where it terminates
firt V!i ANA'
at the union of the points, or at the extremities of . the
two tarfi.
' This mufcle is divided into four portions, whereof the
frft is that which furrounds the orbit. The fecond
portion is that which iies between the upper edge of the
orbit and the globe of the eye, and which covers the in¬
ferior edge of the orbit below, fome of its fibres being
fixed to both edges of the orbit.
The third portion feems to belong more particularly
to the palpebrae, and the greateft part of it is fpent in the
palpebra fuperior. The fibres of this portion meet at
the two angles of the eye, where they appear to make
very acute inflexions without any difcontinuation.
The fourth portion is an appendix to the third, from
which it differs chiefly in this, that its fibres do not
reach to the angles^ and form only fmali arches, the ex¬
tremities of which terminate in each palpebra.
• All thefe different portions of the orbicular mufcle ad¬
here to the flcin, which covers it from the upper part of
the nofe to the temples, and from the fupercilium to the
upper part of the cheek. When they contraft, feveral
wrinkles are formed in the fkin, which vary according to
the different diredions of the fibres.
Tie Uses 0/the Eye, and of its Appendages, tn general.
Every body knows that the eye is the organ of vi-
Gon. The tranfparent parts of the globe modify the
rays of light, by different refradtions ; the retina and
choroides receive the different impreffions of thefe rays;
amd the optic nerve carries thefe impreflions to the brain.
When objeXs are at a great diftance or obfcure, the pa¬
pilla is dilated; and it is contraXed v/hen objeXs are
near, or placed in a great light. The mufcles of the
globe of the eye and of the palpebrse perform the mo¬
tions already defcribed.
The glandula lachrymalis continually moiftens the fore-
j part of the globe of the eye ; and the lachrymal ferum is
' equally fpread over that globe by the motions of the fu-
11 perior palpebra, the inner furface of which is in a fmali
I meafure villous. The union of the two palpebras direXs
this ferum towards the punXa lachrymalia; aud the unXu-
i ous matter, difcharged through the foramina ciliaria,
I binders it from running out between the palpebrae. The
| large fize and vifcid fufface of the caruncula prevents it
| from running beyond the punXa, and thus forces it into
* them.
The fupercilia may hinder fv/eat from falling on the
| eyes. The fuperior cilia, which are longer than the in-
J ferior, may have the fame ufe; and they both ferve to
j prevent duff, infeXs, &c. from entering the eyes when
they are only a little open.
Sect. VI. The Nose.
The bones of the nofe have already been defcribed in
i'! the futures of the bones of the head,
The foft parts are the integuments, mufcles, facculus
lachrymalis, membrana puuitaria, and hairs ofthenares.
The internal nares, or the two cavities of. the
I v. f Voi. I. No. 13. 3
r O M Y. 293
nofe, comprehend the whole fpace between the external
nares and pofterior openings immediately above the
arch of the palate ; from whence thefe cavities reach up¬
ward as far as the lamina cribrofa of the os ethmoides,
where they communicate forward with the Gnus fron-
tales, and backward with the Gnus fphenoidales. La¬
terally, thefe cavities are bounded cn the iniide by the
feptum narium, and on the outfide, or that next the cheeks,
by the conchas, between which they communicate with
the Gnus maxillaris.
The particular Gtuation of thefe cavities deferves our
attention. The bottom of them runs direXty backward,
fo that a flreight and pretty large ffilet may eafily be
palled from the external nares, under the great apophy-
Gs of the occipital bone. The openings of the maxilla¬
ry Gnufes are nearly oppofite to the upper edge of the
ofla malarum. The openings of the frontal finufes are
more or lefs oppoGte to, and between the pulleys or rings
of the mufculi trochleares; and by thefe marks the Gtu¬
ation of all the other parts may be determined.
The inferior portion of the external nofe is ccmpofed
of feveral cartilages, which are commonly Gve in num¬
ber, and of a pretty regular figure. The reft are only
additional, fmaller, more irregular, and the number of
them more uncertain. * Of the five ordinary cartilages,
one is fituated in the middle, the other four laterally,
1 he middle cartilage is the mofl confiderable, and fup-
ports the reft, being conneXed immediately to the bony
parts ; but the other four are conneXed to the middle car¬
tilage, and to each other, by means of ligaments.
The fub-feptum, or portion under the feptum narium, is
a pillar of fat applied to the inferior edge of the cartilagi¬
nous partition, in form of a foft moveable appendix. The
thicknefs of the ahe narium, and efpecially that of their
lower edges, is not owing to the cartilages, which are
very thin, but to the fame kind of folid fat with which
thefe cartilages are covered. The great cartilage is im¬
moveable by reafon of its firm connexion to the bony
parts of the nofe; but the lateral cartilages are move-
able, becaufe of their ligamentary connexions, and they
are moved in different manners by the mufcles belonging
to them.
The external nofe is covered by the common integu¬
ments, the fkin, epidermis, and fat. Thofe which co¬
ver the tip of the nofe and alse narium are a great num¬
ber of glandular bodies, called glandula fehacea, the
contents of which may eafily be fqueezed out by the
fingers.
Six mufcles are commonly reckoned to belong to the
nofe ; two reXi, called aifo pyramidales or triangulares ;
two obliqui, or laterales; and two tranfverfi, or myrti-
foitnes. The nofe may alfo be moved in fome meafure
by the mufcles of the lips, which in many cafes become
affiftants to the proper mufcles of this organ.
The mufculus pyramidalis, or anterior, on each fide, is
inferred by one extremity in the fynarthrofis of the cs
fronds and ofla nafi, where its flefliy fibres mix with
thofe of the mufculi frontales and fuperciliarcs. It is
very flat, and runs down on the fide of the nofe, increa-
fing gradually in breadth, and terminating by an aponeu-
rcfis, which reprefents the bafts of a pyramid, and is in-
f 4 E ferted
254 A N A T
icrted in the moveable cartilage which forms the ala of
the nares.
The oblique or lateral mufcle is a thin flefhy plane,
lying on the fide of the former. The lateral mufcle is
fixed by its upper extremity to the apophyfis nafalis of
the os maxillare, below its articulation with the os fron-
tis, and fometimes a little lower than the middle of the
inner edge of the orbit. From thence it runs toward
the ala narium, and is infertedin the moveable cartilage,
near the os maxillare, being covered laterally by a por¬
tion of the neighbouring mufcle of the upper lip.
The ttanfverfe or inferior mufcle, called alfo myrti-
formes, is inferred by one end in the os maxillare, near
the lower edge of the orbit, much about the place which
anfwers to the extremity of the focket of the dens cani-
nus on the fame fide. From thence it runs almoft tranf-
verfely upward, and is fixed in the lateral cartilages of the
nofe, over which it fometimes runs to the alae of the
great cartilage, to be inferted there.
The firft two pairs of thefe mufcles raife and dilate
the ala; of the nares when they a£t; and at the fame
time raife the upper lip, by reafon of their connexion with
the mufcles of that part. They likewife wrinkle the
Ikin on the fides of the nofe.
The membrana pituitaria is that which lines the whole
internal nares, the cellular convolutions, the conchae,
the fides of the feptum narium, and, by an uninterrupted
continuation, the inner furface of the finus frontales and
inaxillares, and of the dudtus lacrymales, palatini, and fphe-
noidales. It is likewile continued down from the nares to
the-pharynx, feptum palati, <&c.
It is termed pituitaria, becaufe, through the greatefl
part of its large extent, it ferves to feparate from the
arterial blood a mucilaginous lympha, called pituita by
the ancients, which in the natural ftate is pretty liquid ;
but it is fubjedt to very great changes, becoming fome-
ximes glutinous or fnotty, fometimes limpid, &c. nei¬
ther is it feparatedin equal quantities through the whole
membrane.
When we carefully examine this membrane, it appears
to he of a different ftrufture in different parts. Near
the edge cf the external nares it is very'thin, appearing
to be the fkin and epidermis in a degenerated flate. All
the other parts of it in general are fpungy, and of diffe¬
rent thickneffes. The thickeft parts are thofe on the
feptum narium, on the whole lower portion of the inter¬
nal nares, and on the conchae.
On the fide next the periofleum and perichondrium it
is plentifully flored with fmall glands, the excretory
dudls of which are very long near the feptum narium,
and their orifices very vifible.
The frontal, maxillary and fphenoidal finufes open in¬
to the internal nares, but in different manners. The
frontal finufes. open from above downward, anfwering to
the infundibula of the os ethmoides. Tire fphenoidales
open forwards, oppofite to the pofferior orifices of the
nares ; and the nraxillares open, a liule higher, between
the two conchse.
The opening of the firms maxiliaria in Tome fubjedls
is fingle, in others double; it lies exadtly between the
two conchar* about tire middle of their depth.
O M Y. Part VI.
It is proper here to obferve the whole extent of the
maxillary finus. Below, there is but a very thin par¬
tition between it and the dentes molares, the roots of
which do, in fome fubje&s, perforate that feptum. A-
bove, there is only a very thin tranfparent lamina be¬
tween the orbit and the finus. Backward, above the tu-
berofity of the os maxillare, the fides of the finus are
very thin, efpecially at the place which lies before the
root of the apophyfis pterygoides, through which the in¬
ferior maxillary nerve fends down a ramus to the fora¬
men palatinum pofferius, commonly called gujlatorium.
Inward, or toward the conchse narium, the bony part
of the finus is likewife very thin.
The lachrymal facculus is an oblong membranous bag,
into which the ferous fluid is difeharged from the eye
through the pundta lachrymalia; and from which the fame
fluid pafles to the lower part of the internal nares. It is
fituated in a bony groove and canal, formed partly by
the apophyfis nafalis of the os maxillare and os unguis,
partly by the fame os maxillare and lower part of the os
unguis, and partly by this lower portion of the os unguis
and a fmall fuperior portion of the concha narium in¬
ferior.
This bony lachrymal dudbruns down for a little way
obliquely backward, toward the lower and lateral part of
the internal nares on each fide, where its lower extremi¬
ty opens on one fide of the finus maxillaris under the
inferior concha. The upper part of this dud: is only an
half canal or groove; the lower is a complete canal, nar¬
rower than the former.
The facculus lachrymalis may be divided into a fuperior
or orbitary portion, and an inferior or nafal portion.
The orbitary portion fills the whole bony groove, being
fituated immediately behind the middle tendon of the
mufculus orbicularis. The nafal portion . s in the
bony canal of the nofe, being narrower and Ihorter than
the. former.
The orbitary portion is difpofed at its upper extremi¬
ty, much in the manner of an inteftinum caecum, and
at the lower extremity is continued with the portio na¬
falis. Towards the internal angle of the eye, behind
the tendon of the orbicular mufcle, it is perforated by
a fmall lliort canal formed by the union of the lachrymal
duds.
The nafal portion having reached the lower part of
the bony dud under the inferior concha, terminates in
a fmall, flat, membranous bag, the bottom of which is
perforated by a round opening.
The fubftanceof this facculus is fomething fpongy or
cellulous, and pretty thick, being ftrongly united by. its
convex fide to the periofteum of the bony canal.
The dudus inciforii, or nafo-palatini of Steno, are
two canals which go from the bottom of the internal na¬
res crofs the arch of the palate, and open behind the
firfl: or largeft dentes incifiyii. Their two orifices may
be diftindly feen in the Ikeleton at the lower part of the
nafal foffse, on die anterior and lateral fides of the crilte
maxillares ; and we may likewife perceive their oblique
paflage through-the maxillary bones, and laftly their in¬
ferior orifices in a fmall cavity , or foflula, called fora ■
men palatinum anteriut.
The
Part VI. A N A T
The nofe is the organ of fmelling, by means of the
•villous portion of the internal membrane, to which the
olfaftory nerves are chiefly diftributed. It is likewife
of ufe in refpiration; and the mucilaginous fluid fpread
over the whole pituitary membrane, prevents the air
from drying that membrane, and fo rendering it inca¬
pable of being affefted. The nofe ferves likewife to re¬
gulate and modify the voice, and to this the finufes like¬
wife contribute. The facculus lachrymalis receives the
ferum from the eyes, and difcharges it upon the palate,
from whence the greateft part of it runs to the pharynx.
Sect. VII. The Ear.
Anatomists commonly divide or dillinguilh the ear
into external and internal. By the external ear they
mean all that lies without the external orifice of the me¬
atus auditorius in the os temporis; and by the internal
ear, all that lies within the cavities of that bone, and al-
fo the parts that bear any relation thereto.
The greateft part of the external ear confifts of a large
cartilage very artificially framed, which is the bafis of
ail the other parts of which this portion of the ear is
made up. The internal ear confifts chiefly of feveral
bony pieces, partly formed in the fubftance of the ofTa
temporum, and efpecially in that portion of it called a-
fophyjispetrofa, and partly feparated from, but contain¬
ed in a particular cavity of that bone.
The external ear, taken altogether, refefnbles in feme
degree the ftiell of a mtrflel, with its broad end turned
upward, the fmall end downward, the convex fide next
the head, and the concave fide outward. Two portions
are diftinguilhed in the external ear taken all together;
one large and folid, called in Latin pinna, which is the
fuperior, and by much the greateft part; ihe other
fmall and foft, called the lobe, which makes the lower
part.
' The forefide is divided into eminences and cavitieh.
i The eminences are four in number, called helix, emtke-
Ux, tragus, and antitragus. The helix is the large
folded border or circumference of the great portion of
the ear. The anthelix is the large oblong- eminence or
. rifing furrounded by the helix. The tragus is the fmall
| anterior protuberance below the anterior extremity of
the helix, which in an advanced age is covered with hairs,
j .The antitragus is the pofterior tubercle below the infe¬
rior extremity of the anthelix.
j ’ The cavities on the forefide are four in number-; the
[i hoftow of the helix; the deprdfion at the fuperior extre-
E: mity of the anthelix, called feffa navicularis; the con-
i! cha, or great double cavity that lies under the rifing term-
| ed ant helix, the upper bottom of which is diftinguilhed
l from the lower by a continuation of the helix in form
a of a tranfverfe crifta ; and laftly, the meatus-of the ex-
i, ternal ear fituated at the lower part of the bottom of the
a concha.
I The backfide of the external ear ftiews only one cOn-
i) fiderabk eminence, which is a portion of the convex-fide
o of the concha, the other portion being hid by the adhe-
$ Ison of the ear to the os temporis*.
O M Y. 295-
The other parts of the external ear, befides the carti¬
lage, are ligaments, mufcles, integuments, febaceous and
ceruminous glands, arteries, veins and nerves.
The cartilage of the outward ear is nearly of the fame
extent and figure with the large folid portion thereof, al¬
ready mentioned; but it is not of the fame thicknefs,
being covered by integuments on both fides. Tn the
lobe or foft lower portion of the ear, this cartilage is
wanting.
The external ear. is fixed to the cranium, not only by
the cartilaginous portion of the meatus auditorius, but
alfo by ligaments, which are two in number, one anterior,
the other pofterior. The anterior ligament is fixed by
one extremity to the root of the apophyfis zygomatica
of the os temporis, at the anterior and a little toward
the fuperior part of the meatus offeus, clofe to the cor¬
ner of the glenoid cavity; and by the other extremity,,
to the anterior and fuperior part of the caitilaginous me¬
atus.
The pofterior ligament is fixed by one end to the
root of the maftoid apophyfis, and by the other to the
pofterior part of the convexity of the concha, fo that it
is oppofite to the anterior ligament.
Of the mufcles of the external ear, feme go between
the cartilages and the os temporis, others are confined to
the cartilages alone. Both kinds vary in different fub-
jeifls, and are fometimes fo very thin, as to look more
like ligaments than mufcles. The mufcles of the fiift
kind are generally three in number, one fuperior, one
pofterior, and one anterior. The fuperior mufcle is fix¬
ed in the convexity of the foffa navicularis, and of the
fuperior portion of the concha; from whence it runs up
to the fejuamous portion of the os temporis, expanding
in a radiated manner, and is inferted principally in the
ligamentary aponeurofis, which covers the pofterior por¬
tion of the temporal mufcle.
The anterior mufcle is fmall,' more or lefs inverted,
and like an appendix to the fuperior. It is fixed by one
extremity above the root of the zygomatic apophyfis, and
• by the other in the anterior part of the convexity of the
concha.
The pofterior mufcle is almoft tranfverfe, and of a
confiderable breadth, being fixed by one end to the po
fterior part of the convexity of the concha, and by the
other in the root of the maftoid apophyfis.
The fmall mufcleswhich are confined to the cartilages
are only fmall ftrata-of fibres found on both fides of the
cartilages.
The lobe of the ear, or that foft portion w hich lies
under the tragus; antitragus; and meattis auditorius, is
made up of nothing but Hein and cellular fubftance. The
meatus auditorius is partly bony, and partly cartilaginous..
The bony portion is the longeft, and forms the bottom
of the canal. The cartilaginous portion is the ftiorteft,
and forms the external opening or orifice of the canal.
Thefe two portions joined tndw'ife to each other, form
a canal of about three quarters of an inch in length, of
different widenefs in its different parts, and a little con¬
torted, It is lined on the infide by the fkin and cellular
membrane, through its w hole length ; and thus thefe in¬
teguments make up for-the'breaks in the cartilaginous
portion*
portion, and form a kiad of cutaneous tube in'the other
portion.
The lit in which covers both Tides of the cartilage con¬
tains a great number of finall glands, which continually
difcharge an oily tvhitilh humour, collefted chiefly near
the acihefions of the ear to the head, and under the fold
of the helix ; and thefe glands are of the febaceous kind.
The ikin‘which lines the meatus auditorius- contains an¬
other kind of glands, of a yellowifh colour, and w'hich
may be plainly leen on the convex fide of the cutaneous
tube already mentioned.
Thefe glands are difpofed in fuch a manner as to leave
reticular fpaces between them, and they penetrate a little
way into the fubftance of the fl<in. They are called
Wu/ar arurnin'.fx, becaufe they difcharge that matter
which is OAXotijL cerumen, or the •uwar of the ear. The
inner furface of the cutaneous tube is full of fine hairs,
between which he the orifices of the ceruminous glands.
The firft place in W'hich we meet with thefe glands is on
that part of the convex fide of the cutaneous tube which
fapplies the breaks of the cartilaginous meatus.
AllThe bony parts of the organ of hearing, or bones
of the internal ear, being contained in the inferior por¬
tions of the offa teffiporum; it will be very proper to re¬
coiled what has been already faid about thefe, in Part I.
All the bony organ of hearing may be divided into four
•general parts: i. The external meatus auditorius;
2. The tympanum or barrel of the ear; 3. The laby¬
rinth; 4. The internal meatus auditorius. It may like-
wife be divided into immoveable or containing parts,
which take in all the four already mentioned ; and move-
able or contained parts, which are four little bones lod¬
ged in the tympanum, called incus, malleus, Jlapes, and
os orb'culare or lenticulare.
The external auditory paffage begins by the external
auditory hole, the edge of which is rough and prominent ;
But backwards towards the mafloid apophyfis it appears
very much doped. The paflage itfelf is about half an
inch in length, running obliquely from behind forward,
in a curve direction, and fometimes winding a little in
the middle, like a fcrew. Its cavity is almoft oval,
wider at the entry than at the middle, after which it
•widens again by degrees.
It terminates inwardly by an even circular edge lying
in a plane very much inclined, the upper part of it being
turned outward, and the lower part inward; fo that the
whole canal is longer on the lower fide than on the upper.
The concave fide of the circular edge is grooved quite
round.
In children this bony canal is wanting, as well as the
maftoid apophyfis; and the inner circular edge is a di-
■iHrnft ring, which in an advanced age unites intirely,
and becomes one piece with the reft. It is termed the
.hmy circle in infants, and indeed it is very eafily fepara-
tcd from all the other parts.
It would feem therefore, that the whole bony canal in
adults is only a prolongation of the bony circle in chil-
-dren; becaufe even in a more advanced age, the whole
canal may-, without much difficulty, be taken out. The
-circular groove lies between the malloid apophyfis and
the articular fiffure ©r crack.
O M Y. Part Vfl
The tympanum or barrel of the ear is a cavity ifre"
gularly femi-fpherical, the bottom of it being turned in'
ward, and the mouth joined to the circular groove al¬
ready mentioned. Both eminences and cavities are ob?
fervable in it.
The remarkable eminences are three in number; a
large tuberofity lying in the very bottom of the barrel, a
little toward the back part; and a fmall irregular pyra¬
mid fituated above the tuberofity, and a little more back¬
ward ; the apex of it is perforated by a fmall hole, and
on one fide of. the bafis two fmall bony filaments are oftea
found in a parallel fituation In the third eminence is a
cavity ftraped like the mouth of a fpoon, fituated at the
upper and a little towards the anterior part of the bot¬
tom of the tympanum.
The principal cavities in the tympanum are, the open¬
ing of the maftoid cells or finuofities; the opening of the
Euftachian tube; the bony half-canal; the feneftra ova-
lis and rotunda; and to thefe may be added the fmall
hole in the pyramid.
The opening in the maftoid cells is at the pofter or
and upper part of the edge of the barrel. The cells
themfelves which end there are dug in the fubftance of
the maftcid procefs, being very irregular and full of wind?
ings and turnings.
The opening of. the Euftachian tube is at the anterior
and a little toward the upper part of the edge of the bar¬
rel. This tube runs from the tympanum, towards the
pofterior openings of the nafal folfte, and arch of the pa¬
late. The bony portion thereof is dug in the apophyfis
petrofa, along the du<51 of the carotid apophyfis; and
when it leaves that, it is lengthened out by the fpinal a-
pophyfis cf the os fphenoides.
The bony half-canal, of which the cavity refembling
the mouth of a fpoon is the extremity, lies immediately
above the Euftachian tube, towards the upper fide of the
apophyfis petrofa, or rather in the very fubftance of that
upper fide.
The feneftra ovalis is a hole of communication between
the tympanum and labyrinth. It lies immediately above
the tuberofity, the upper fide of it being a little rounded,
the lower a little flatted ; and one extremity being turn¬
ed forward, the other backward.
The feneftra rotunda is fomething lefs than the ovalis^
and fituated in the lower, and a little towards the pofte¬
rior part of the large tuberofity ; the opening of it, which
is the orifice of a particular dudi in the labyrinth, lying
obliquely backward and outward.
The hole in the apex of the pyramid is the orifice
of a cavity, which may be named the fsnus of this pf-
The tympanum contains feveral little bones called the
hones of the ear. They are generally four in number*
denominated from fomething to which they are thought
to bear a refemblance, v/z. incus, malleus, ftapes, and
os orbiculare or lenticulare
The incus, or anvil, refembles, in fome meafure, one
of the anterior grinders with its roots at a great diftahee
from each other; at leaft it comes nearer to this than to
the ftiape of the anvil. It may be divided into a body
and branches. The -body is a large fubftance, the
branches
Part VT. A N A 1
tranches or legs are two, one long and one fhort. The
tody is turned forward, the Ihort Teg backward, and the
long leg downward.
The body of the incus is broader than it is thick. It
has two eminences, and two cavities between them, much
in the fame manner as we fee in the crown of the firft
grinders.
The ftiort leg is thick at its origin, and from thence
decreafmg gradually, it ends in a point. It is fituated ho¬
rizontally, its point being turned backward, and joined
to the edge of the maftoid opening of the tympanum.
. The long leg, viewed through the external auditory
paffage, appears to be fituated vertically ; but if we look
tipon it either on the fore or backfide, we fee it is incli¬
ned, the extremity of it being turned much more inward,
than the root or origin. The point of the extremity is
a little flatted, and bent inward like a hook, and fome-
Ttimes a little hollowed like a kind of ear-picker.
The malleus or hammer is a long bone, with a large
head, a fmall neck, an handle, and two apophyfes, one
in the neck, the other in the.handle.
The top of the head is confiderahly rounded, and from
thence it contracts all the way to the neck. Both head
nnd neck are in an inclined fituation, and the eminences
and cavities in it anfwer to thofe in the body of the
incus.
The handle is looked upon by fome as one of the a-
pophyfes of the malleus ; and in that cafe, it is the great-
ell of the three. It forms an angle with the neck and
head, near which it is fomething broad and flat, and de-
creafes gradually toward its extremity.
The apophyfis of the handle, termed by others the
fmall or Ihort apophyfis of the malleus, terminates the
angle already mentioned, being extended towards the
Beck, and lying in a ftraight line with that fide or border
of the handle which is next it.
The apophyfis of the neck, called alfb apcphyfu gra¬
cilis, is in a natural Hate very long,- but fo fiender with¬
al, that it is very eafily broken, efpecially when dry ; it
arifes from the neck, and fometimes appears much long¬
er than it really is, by the addition of a fmall dried ten¬
don flicking to it.
The ftapes is a fmall bone, very well denominated
from the refemblance it bears to a ftirrup. It is divided
■ into the head, legs, and bafis.
• The head is placed upon a Ihort flatted neck, the tap
- of it being fometimes flat, fometimes a little hollow.
. The two legs taken together, form an arch, like that
> of a ftirrup, in the concave fide of which is a groove,
1 which runs through their whole lengtli. One leg is long-
1 cr, more bent, and a little broader than the other.
The bafis refembles that of a ftirrup, both in its oval
t {hape, and onion with the legs, except that it is not per-
1 (orated as the ftirrups now are, but folid, like thofe of
| the ancients. Round its circumference, next the legs,
i is a little border, which makes that fide of the bafis appear
a little hollow. The other fide is pretty fmooth, and
o one half of the circumference is fomething more curve
i than the other.
The orbicular or lenticular bone is the fmalleft bone in
b the body. It lies between the head of the ftajes and ex-
' Von. I. Numb. 13. f
O M Y» 2?7
tremity of the long leg of the incus, being articulated
v/ith each of thefe. In dry bones it is found very clofe-
ly connefted, fometimes to the ftapes, fometimes to the
incus, and might in that ftate be eafily miftaken for an e-
piphyfis of either of thefe bones.
The labyrinth is divided into three parts, the anterior,
middle, and pofterior. The middle portion is termed
vejlibulum-, the anterior, cochlea', andthe pofterior, the
labyrinth in particular, which comprehends the three fe-
micircular canals.
The veftibulum is, an irregularly round cavity, lefs
than the tympanum, and fituated more inward and a lit¬
tle more forward. Thefe two cavities are, in a manner,
fet back to back, with a common partition-wall between
them, perforated near the middle by the feneftra ovalis,
by which the cavities communicate with one another.
The cavity of the veftibolum is likewife perforated by
feveral other holes; on the outfide, or towards the tym¬
panum, by the feneftra rotunda; on the backfide, by the
five orifices of the femicircular canals; on the lower
part of the forefide, by two holes, which are the entry
of the cochlea; and on the fore-fide, towards the inter¬
nal meatus auditorius, oppofite to the feneftra ovalis, by
a great many very fmall holes for the paflage of the
nerves.
The femicircular canals are three in number, one ver¬
tical and fuperior, one vertical and pofterior, and one ho¬
rizontal. The fuperior vertical canal is fituated tranf-
verfely with refpedt to the apophyfis petrofa, the convex
fide or curvature of it being turned upward, and the ex¬
tremities downward, one inward, the other outward-
The pofterior vertical canal lies parallel to the length of
the apophyfis, the curvature being turned backward, and
the extremities forward, one upward, the other down¬
ward ; and the fuperior extremity of this canal meets and
lofes itfelf in the internal extremity of the former. The
curvature and extremities of the horizontal canal are al-
moft on a level; the curvature lying obliquely backward,
andthe extremities forward, ending under thofe of the
fuperior vertical canal, but a little nearer each other;
and the inner being almoft in the middle fpace, between
the extremities of the pofterior vertical canal.
The horizontal canal is generally the leaft of the three;
the pofterior vertical is often, and the fuperior vertical
fometiines, the greateft; all the three canals are larger
fhan a femicircle, forming nearly three quadrants; they
are broader at the orifices than in the middle. Thefe
Orifices open into the back-fide of the veftibulum, being
but five in number, fo that in the pofterior part of the
veftibulum, two appear towards the infid?, and three
towards the outfide.
. The cochlea is a fort of fpiral fliell, with two dufls,
formed in the anterior part of the appphyfis petrofa, in
fome meafure refembling the fliell of a fnail. The parts
to be diftinguiflied in it, are the bafis, the apex, the fpiral
Jamina, or halffeptum, by which its cavity is divided in¬
to two half-canals ; the fpindle round which the cochlea
turns; and lallly, the orifices and union of the two du&s.
The bafis is turned direftly inward, toward the inter¬
nal foramen auditorium, the apex outward, and the axis
of the fpindle is nearly horizontal.
3 4 F
The
*2<>S A N A T
The bafts of the cochlea is gently hollo'Ved, and to¬
wards the middle perforated by fevcral fmall holes. The
fpindle is a kind of fltort cone, with a very large bafts,
which is the middle of the bafts of the cochlea. Thro’
its whole length runs a double fpiral groove, which,
through a microfcope, (hews a great number of pores.
The cochlea makes about two turns and an half from
the bafts to the apex; and the two dufte; being ftri&ly
united together through their whole courfe, form an en¬
tire common feptum, which muft not be confounded with
the half feptum or fpiral lamina, as is often done. The
iirft might be termed the common feptum, the other the
particular feptum or half-feptum.
Both of them are clofely joined to the fpindle, being
thicker there than in any other place. The common
feptum is complete, and feparates the turns entirely from
each other; whereas the half-feptum in the ikeleton is
only a fpiral lamina, the breadth of which is terminated
all round by a very thin border lying in the middle cavity
of the cochlea. In the natural ftate, there is a membra-
nous half- feptum, which completes the partition between
the two dudls.
The two half-canals turn jointly about the fpindle,
one being, fituated towards the bafts of the cochlea, the
other towards the apex : for which reafpn they have been
termed the one internal, and the other external;
the divifion of them into the upper and lower flight, not
being' agreeable to the natural ftate, but liable to convey
a very falfe idea thereof.
The fpiral-or volute of the cochlea, begins at the low¬
er part of the veftibulum, runs from thence forward to
the top, then backward down to the bottom, afterwards
upwards and forwards, and fo on from the bafts which
is turned inward, to the apex which is turned outward.
The two half-canals communicate fully at the apex of
the cochlea. Their feparate openings are towards the
bafts, one of them being immediately into the lower part
of the forefide of the veftibulum, the other into the fe-
neftra rotunda.
The internal auditory hole is in the backfide of the
apophyfis petrofa, in feme meafure behind the veftibu¬
lum and bafts of the cochlea. It is a kind of blind hole*
divided into two foftulse, one large, the other fmall.
The large one lies k>weft, and ferves for the portio mol¬
lis of the auditory nerve or feventh pair. The fmall one
is uppermoft, and is the opening of a fmall dud through
which the portio dura of the fame nerve paftes.
The inferior fpffula is full of little holes; which, in
the natural ftate, are filled with nervous filaments of the
portio mollis, which-go to the fpindk, to the femicircu-
lar canals, and to thofe of the cochlea. It is this folfu-
la which forms the fliallow cavity at the bafts of the fpin¬
dle of the cochlea.
The paflage for the portio dura of the auditory nerve
runs behind the tympanum, and its orifice is the ftylo-
maftoid hole. It begins by the fmall foflula, and pierces
from within,, outwards, the upper- part of the apophyfis
petrofa, making tliere an angle or curvature. From ih'ence
it is inclined backward, behind the ftnall pyramid of the
tympanum, and runs down to the ftylo-maftoid hole.
It communicates like wife, bjf a fmall hole, with the finus
O M Y. Part. VI.
of the pyramid; and lower down, by another hole, with
the barrel of the ear.
The internal parts of the ear are chiefly the membrana
tympani, the periofteum of the barrel, oflicula auditus,
labyrinth and all its cavities, the membrana maftoidaea
interna, the mufcles of the officula, and the parts which
complete the formation of the Euftachian .tube.
The Euftachian tube is a canal or dud which goes from
the tympanum to the pofterior openings of the nares, of
nafal foffic, and toward the arch of the palate.'
The bony portion of it lies through its whole length
immediately above the fiflure of the glenoid or articular
cavity of the os temporis, and terminates at the meeting
of the fpinal apophyfis of the os fphenoidale with the a-
pophyfis petrofa of the os temporis.
• The other or mixed portion, reaches in the fame direc¬
tion from this place to the internal ala of the apophyfii
pterygoides, or to the pofterior and outer edge of the
shares. It is properly divided into four parts, two fupericr,
and two inferior.
The .two upper parts or quarters are bony; and of
thefe the innermoft is formed by the fide of the apophy¬
fis petrofa, the outermoft by the fide of the apophyfis
fpinalis of the os fphenOides, fo that the upper half of
this portion of the tube is' bony. Of the two inferior
parts, the internal is cartilaginous, and the external mem¬
branous ; fo that the lower half of this portion of the tube
is partly cartilaginous next the os fphenoidale, and part¬
ly membranous next the apophyfis petrofa.
The Euftachian tube thus formed, is very narrow in
the bony part nekt the ear. The other portion grows
gradually wider, efpecially near the pofterior nates, where
the inner cartilaginous fide terminates by a prominent
edge, and the outer fide joins that of the neighbouring
noftril. The cavity of the tube is lined by a membrane
like that of the internal nares, of which it appears to be:
a continuation.
The fituation of the two tubes is oblique, their pofte¬
rior extremities at the ears being at a greater diftance than
the anterior at the nares, and the convex fides of the
prominent edges are turned toward each other. The o-
penings of the tubes are oval at this place, as is likewife'
their whole cavity, efpecially that of the mixed portion.
The membrana tympani is a thin, tranfparent, flattilK
pellicle, the edge of which is round, ‘and ftrongly fixed
in the orbicular groove which: divides the bony meatus of
the external ear from the tympanum or barrel. This‘
membrane is very much ftretched or very tenfe, and yet
not perfectly flat: for on the fide next the meatus exter-
nus it has a fmall hollownefs, which is pointed in the mid¬
dle ; and on the fide next the tympanum ir is gently con¬
vex, and alfo pointed in the middle.
This membrane is fituated obliquely, the upper part
of its circumferenee-being turned outward, and the low¬
er part inward, fuitably to the diredtion of the bony
groove already mentioned. It is made up of feveral very
fine laminae, clofely united together. The external la¬
mina is in-fome meafare:a produffion of the fltin and cue-
ticula of the external meatus; the internal lamina is a
continuation of the periofteum of the tympanum ; and
when the membrane has been firft macerated in water;
. each.
Part. VI; ANA
each of thefe laminae maybe fiibdivided into feveral others.
The depreflion in the middle of the membrana tympa-
ni isi caufed by the adhefion of the little bone called mal¬
leus, the handle of which is clofely joined to the infide
of the membrane from the upper part of the circumfe¬
rence all the way tb the center to which the end of the
handle is. fixed. This handle feems to lie in a very fine
membranous duplicature, by means of which it is tied
to the membrana tympani, and which ferves it for a pe-
riolteum.
. The periofteum of the tympanum or barrel of the ear
produces that of the fmall bones; it is likewife continued
over the two fe'neftrae, and enters the euftachian tube,
where it is loft in the inner membrane of that dudh
• The cellulse maftoidaei are very irregular cavities in the
fubftance of the maftoid apophyfis, which communicate
with each other, and have a common opening towards
the infide,. and a little above the pofterior edge of the or¬
bicular groove. Thefe cells are lined by a fine membrane,
which is partly a continuation of the periofteum of the
tympanum, and partly feems to be of a glandular ftruc-
ture like a kind of the membrana pituitaria. The ma¬
ftoid opening is oppofite to the fraall opening of the Eu¬
ftachian tube, but a little higher.
The ligaments of the ollicula cotne next in order. The
incus is tied by a ftrong (hort ligament, fixed in the point
of the {hort leg, to the edge of the maftoid opening.
Between the incus and malleus we find a fmall, thin car¬
tilage. The malleus is connected through the whole
length of its handle to the infide of the membrana tym-
. pani.
: The malleus has three mufdes, one external, one an¬
terior, and one internal; and the ftapes has one mufcle.
The external or fuperior mufcle of the malleus, is a thin
fafciculus of flefliy fibres lying along the upper part of the
bony meatus auditorius, between the periofteum and the
other integuments. The outer part of it is pretty broad,
and it contradls by degrees as it advances towards the up¬
per part or break of the orbicular groove of the tympa¬
num, into which it enters by a fmall tendon, above the
membraaa tympani, and is inferted in the neck of the
I malleus, near the fmall eminence or ihort apophyfis of the
handle.
. The anterior mufcle of the malleus, is flefhy, long,
and thin. It runs along the outfide of the Euftachian
tube, to which it adheres very clofely through its whole
j length. Its anterior extremity is fixed in that fide of the
j tube juft before the fphenoidal fpine; and the pofterior
extremity ends in a long thin tendon, which runs in the
j articular or glenoid fiffure of the os temporis, through a
: fin all oblique notch ; in which fiffure it enters thetympa-
t num, and is inferted in the long thin apophyfis of the
ti malleus. It is partly accompanied, by a. nerve, which
kl forms what is called the chorda tympasii.
1 , The internal mufcle of the malleus,is very flefhy and
diftinft. It lies along the infide of the Euftachian tube,
q partly on the cartilaginous, and partly on the bony.por-
.4 tion, being fixed by one extremity in the. apopEyfis per
$ trofa. Afterwards it runs along the cavity of the bony
d half-canal of the typipanum, within which cavity it is in-
I veiled by a portion of a membranous or ligamentar y va-.
T O M Y.
gina, which being fixed to the edges of the half-canal,
forms an intire tube therewith.
At the extremity of this bony half-canal, where we
obferve the cavity ihaped like the mouth of a fpocn, this
jnufcle ends^ in a tendon, which is bent round the tranfi-
verfe bony or ligamentary ridge in the laft-named cavity,
as over a pulley, and is inferted in the neck of the mal¬
leus above the Imall apophyfis, advancing likewife as far
as the handle.
The mufcle of the ftapes is ftiort and thick, and lies
concealed within the .fmall bony pyramid at the bottom
of the tympanum. The cavity which it fills, touches
very-nearly the bony canal of the portio dura of the au¬
ditory nerve; and it terminates in a fmall tendon which
goes out of the cavity through the finall hole in the apex
of the pyramid.. As it goes through the hole it turns
forward, and is inferted in the neck of the ftapes on the
fide of the longeft and moft crooked leg of that bone. .
The three parts of the. labyrinth, that is, .the vefti*
bulum, femicircular canals, and cochlea, are lined by a
fine periofteum, which is continued over all the fides of
their cavities, and {huts the two feneftrae of the tym¬
panum.
The periofteum of the two fides of the bony fpiral la¬
mina advances beyond the edge of that lamina, and forms
a membranous duplicaturc, r which extending to the oppo¬
fite fide compleats the fpiral feptum.
This feptum feparates the two half-canals from the ba¬
lls to die apex; but there it leaves a fmall opening, by
which the fmall extremities of the half-canals communi¬
cate with each other. The large extremity of the exter¬
nal half-canal ends by an oblique turn in the feneltra ro¬
tunda, which is flint by a continuation of the periofteum
of that canal. The large extremity of the other half¬
canal opens into the veftibuluni; and thefe two extremi¬
ties are intirely feparated by a - continuation, of the pe¬
riofteum..
The ear is the organ of which we can moft diftindly un¬
fold the ftrudture, and demonftrate the greateft number of
parts, that is, of fmall machines of which it is made up.
We know likewife in general, that it is the organ of hear¬
ing; but when we endeavour to difeover the ufes of each
of thefe parts, that is, how each contributes to the great
defign of the whole, after having thoroughly examined
them, we muft be obliged to own, that the greateft part
of what the moft able philofophers have laid upon this
fubjeft,.is without any real foundation.
Sect. VIII. The Mour h.
Th e, mouth may be diftinguiftied into external and in¬
ternal, and the parts of which it coufifts'may likewife
come under the fame two general heads.
The parts of the neck- ftill undeferibed are only the
larynx, pharynx, ., glandulae thyroideae, and the mufculus
cutaneus, which really belong, to the head; and thereT
fore, inftead of making a particular feiftion for lb fmall a
number .of parts, efpecially fince the larynx and pharynx
have fo near a relation to the internal parts of the mouth,
we are under a neceffuy of deferibing them, before pro¬
ceeding to the mouth in particular..
goo
A N A f
The LARYNX.
Tht larynx forms the protuberance in the upper and
anterior part of the neck, called commonly poirium Adarni.
It is chiefly made up of five cartilages, viz. 'Cartilago
■thyroides, which is the anterior and largeft; cricoides,
the inferior, and bafis of the reft; two arytenoides, the
pofterior and fmalleft; and the epiglottis, which is above
all the reft. Thefe cartilages are connedted together by
ligaments, and they have likewife mufcles, glands, mem¬
branes, &c. belonging to them.
The cartilago thyroidtea is large and broad, and folded
in fuch a manner as to have a longitudinal convexity on the
forefide, and two lateral portions, which may be termed
alte. The upper part of its anterior middle portion is
formed into an angular notch; the upper edge of each
ala makes an arch ; and, together with the middle notch,
thefe two edges referable the upper part of an ace of
hearts.
The lower edge of each ala is more even, and the
poftcrior edges ol both are veryfmooth, being lengthen¬
ed out both above and below by apophyfes, which are
■named the cornua of the thyroid cartilage.
The cricoid cartilage relembies a thick, irregular
ring, very broad on one fide, and narrow on the other;
or it may be compared to a fmail portion of a thick tube,
cut horizontally at one end, and very obliquely at the o-
ther. It is ditlinguiflied into a bafis and top, into an an¬
terior, pofterior, and two lateral fides. The bafis is al-
moft horizontal, when we ftand ; and to this the afpera
arteria is connected ; fo that the cricoides may be looked
upon as the upper extremity of the trachea.
The pofterior portion of the cricoides is larger than
the reft, and its pofterior or convex fide is divided by a
longitudinal eminence or prominent line into diftindt fur-
faces, for the infertion of mufcles. The top is gently
Hoped above this prominent line, and teiminates on each
fide by a kind of obtufe angle, formed between it and the
oblique'edge of each lateral portion of this cartilage.
The whole pofterior fide is diftinguilhed into two la¬
teral portions by two prominent lines, each of which
runs down almoft in a ftreight diredHon from the articu¬
lar furface at the top, a little below the middle of this
fide, where it terminates in another articular line a little
concave; and near thefe four articular furfaces there are
fmail tubercles. The two fuperior furfaces are for the
articulation of the cartilagines arytenoidasK; and the two
inferior, for the articulation of the inferior cornua or
appendices of the cartilago thyroides.
The cartilagines arytenoidaese are two imall, equal, fi-
milar cartilages, which, joined together, refemble the
fpout of an ewer, and they are fituated on the top of the
cricoides. In each, we may confiderthe bafis; cornua;
two fides, one pofterior and concave, the other anterior
and convex; and two edges, one internal, the other ex¬
ternal, which is very oblique. The bafes are broad and
thick, and have each a concave articular furface, by
which they are joined to the cricoides.
The cornua are bent backward, and a little toward
each other. • ' .
O M Y. Part VI.
The epiglottis is an elaftic cartilage, nearly of the fi¬
gure of a purflain leaf, narrow and thick at the lower
part, thin and Ilightly rounded at the upper part, gently
Convex on the forefide, and concave on the backfide.
It is fituated above the anterior or convex portion of the
cartilago thyroides; and its lower extremity is tied by a
ftiort, pretty broad, and very ftrong ligament, to the
middle notch in the upper edge of that cartilage. It is
perforated by a great number of holes, fomething like
thofe in the leaves of the hypericum, or St John’s
Wort, which are hid by the membranes that cover its
two Tides.
The cartilago thyroides is connected to the cricoides
by feveral fliort ftrong ligaments, round the articulations
6f the two inferior cornua, with the lateral articular fur¬
faces of the cricoides. The apices of the fuperior cor¬
nua are fixed to the pofterior extremities of the great
cornua of the os hyoidcs, by flender, round ligaments,
about a quarter of an inch in length.
The thyroides is likewife connected to the os hyoides
by a fhort, broad, ftrong ligament, one end of which is
inferted in the fuperior notch of the cartilage, and the
other in the lower edge of the bafis of the bone. It has
alfo two ligaments at the middle of the concave fide,
Which belong to the arytenoidsese.
The cricoides is tied to the lower part of the thyroides
by a ftrong ligament; and by the ligaments already men¬
tioned, to the inferior cornua of that cartilage. Its ba¬
fis is fixed to the firft cartilaginous ring of the trachea
arteria, by a ligament exa&ly like thofe by which the o-
ther rings are connetted together; and the membranous
or pofterior portion of the trachea is likewife fixed to the
pofterior part of the bafis of the cricoides.
The cartilagines arytenoidasse are conne&ed to the cri-'
coides by ligaments, which furround their articulations
with the top of that cartilage. Anteriorly the bafis of
each arytenoides is fixed to one end of a ligamentary1
cord, which by its other end is inferted about the middle-
of the concave fide of the anterior portion of the thy¬
roides. At their infertions in the thyroides, thefe two
ligaments touch each other, but a fmall fpace is left
between them, where they are fixed in the two aryte¬
noides, and they feem likewife to have a fmail adhefion-
to the top of the cricoides. This is what is called the
glottis.
Under thefe two ligamentary cords there are two 0-
thers, which run likewife from behind forward. The in-
terftice between the fuperior and inferior cords on each
fide form a tranfverfe filfure, which is the opening of a
fmall membranos bag, the bottom of which is turned
outward, that is, toward the ala of the thyroides. Thefe
two facculi are chiefly formed by a continuation of the
internal membrane of the larynx, and the inner furface
of their bottom appears fometimes to be glandulous.
On the anterior furface, of the arytenoid cartilages,
there is a fmall depreffion between the bafis and the con¬
vex upper part. This depreflion is filled by a glandulous
body, which not only covers the anterior furface of each
arytenoides, but is likewife extended forward from the
bafis over the pofterior extremity of the neighbouring li¬
gamentary cord.
Part VI. A N A T
The epiglottis Has like wife two lateral ligaments, by>
which it is connefted to the ary.tenoides, all the way to
their points or cornua. It has alfq a membranous liga¬
ment, which running along the middle of its anterior or
concave fide, ties it to the root or bafis of the tongue.
This ligament is only a duplicature of the membrane
which covers the epiglottis, continued to the neighbour¬
ing parts. Laftly, there are two lateral membranous li¬
gaments belonging to it, fixed near the glandulous bodies
Called amygdala.
The epiglottis is not only perforated by the regular
holes already mentioned, but has likewife a great number
of fmall irregular fcilfures and breaks, which are fo ma-
fty different lacuna; fituated between its two membranes,
and filled with fmall glands, the excretory orifices of
which are chiefly on the backfide of this cartilage.
The larynx gives infertion to a number of mufcles,
which (hall now be defcribed.
The fterno-thyroidsei are two long, flat, narrow, thin
mufcles, like ribbons, broader above than below, and fi¬
tuated along that part of the neck which lies between the
thyroid cartilage and the fternum. They are covered by
the fternO-hyoidaei, and they cover the thyroid glands,
palling immediately before them.
' Each mufcle is fixed, by its lower extremity, partly in
the fuperior portion of the inner or backfide of the fter^
num, partly in the ligament and neighbouring portion of
the clavicula, and partly in the cartilaginous portion of
the firfl: rib. Sometimes it tuns a great way down on
the firfl: bone of the fternum, and croftes the mufcle on
the other fide. From thence ft runs up on the afpera
arteria, clofe by its fellow, pafles before the thyroid
glands, over the cricoid cartilage; and is inferted, by its
upper extremity, in the lower part of the lateral fide of
the thyroid cartilage, and partly along that whole fide.
The thyro-hyoidasi, or hyo-thyroidasi are two flat,
thin mufcles, lying clofe by each other, between and a-
bove the former. Each of them is inferted, by its upper
extremity, partly in the bafis, and partly in the neigh¬
bouring part of the great cornua of the os hyoides ; and
by its lower extremity, in the lower part of the lateral
fide of the thyroid cartilage, immediately above the fu¬
perior extremity of the fferno-thyroidseus; and both this
fuperior extremity of the laft named mufcle, and the
lower extremity of the thyro-hyoidseus, are, at their
place of union, confounded a little with the thyro-pha-
ryngteus inferior.
The crico-thyroidxi are two fmall mufcles, fituated
obliquely at the lower part of the thyroid cartilage.
They are inferted by their lower extremities in the ante¬
rior portion of the cricoid cartilage, near each other, and
by their fuperior extremities, laterally in the lower edge
of the thyroid cartilage, at a diftance from each other.
The two mufeuli crico-arytenoidaei pofteriores are fi¬
tuated pofteriorly at the large or back portion of the cri-
coides, filling almoft the two longitudinal furfaces of that
portion, and diftinguifhed by the prominent line between
thefe two furfaces.. Each of them runs up obliquely, and
is inferted, by its upper extremity, in the pofterior part of
the bafis of the arytenoid cartilage of the fame fide, near
the angle of that bafis.
Vol. I. No. 13. *
0 M Y. 301
The two crico-arytenoidaei laterales are fmall, and fir
mated more laterally than the former. Each niufcle is
fixed by one end to the fide of the broad part of the cri-
coides, and by the other to the lower part of the fide
of the neighbouring arytenoides.
The two thyro arytenoidaei are very broad, each muf¬
cle being fituated laterally between the thyroides and crir
coides. It is fixed by a broad infertion in the infide of
the ala pf the thyroid cartilage; and the fibres contracr
ting from thence, run from before backward, and front
below upward, towards the neighbouring arytenoid car¬
tilage, in which they are inferted, from the glottis to the
angle of the bafis.
The arytenoidxi are fmall mufcles lying on the pofte¬
rior concave fides of the arytenoid cartilages, of which
two art called crucial arytenoidai, and one tranfuerfe.
The crucial mufcles run each obliquely from the bafis
of one arytenoid cartilage, to the middle and upper part
of the other, the left mufcle covering the right.
The arytenoidams tranfverfalis is inferted more or lefs
diredtly, by both extremities, in the two arytenoid car¬
tilages.
The two thyro-epiglottici crofs the thyro-arytenoidari,
being inferted in the inner lateral part of the thyroides,
and laterally in the epiglottis.
The aryteno-epiglottici are fmall fleftiy fafciculi, each
of which is fixed by one extremity in the head of one
of the arytenoid cartilages, and by the other in the near-
eft edge of the epiglottis.
The larynx ferves particularly to admit and let out the
matter of refpiration ; and the folidity of the pieces of
which it is compofed hinders not only external objedts,
but alfo any hard thing which we fwallow, from difor-
dering this pafiage. The glottis, being a narrow flit, mo¬
difies the air which we breathe; and as it is very eafily
dilated and contradicd, it forms the different tones of
the voice, chiefly by means of the different mufcles in¬
ferted in the cartilagines arytenoidaeae, to which the o«
ther mufcles of the larynx are afliftants.
The whole larynx is likewife of ufe in deglutition, by
means of its connexion with the os hyoides, to which
the digaftric mufcles of the lower jaw adhere; which
irufcles raife the larynx together with the os hyoides e-
* ery time we fwallow.
T he facility of varying and changing the tone of thq
voice, depends on the flexibility of the cartilages of the
larynx, and decreafes in proportion as we advance in
age, becaufe thefe cartilages gradually harden and oflify.
The mufeuli fterno-thyroidaei ferve in general to pull
down the thyroid cartilage, and the whole larynx along
with it. The thyro-hyoidsei may, as occafion requires,
either draw up the larynx toward the os hyoides, or draw
that bone downward toward the cartilago thyroides.
It is difficult to determine the ufe of the cfico-thyroi-
dari from their fituation. They may either pull the cri-
coides obliquely backward, or the thyroides obliquely
forward.
Both the lateral and pofterior crico-arytefloidar, may
feparate the arytenoid cartilages, and thereby open or di¬
late the glottis.
The thyro-arytenoidaei a<3mg together, draw both the
f 3 4 G arytenoid
302 A N A 1
arytenoid cartilages forward, and confequently loofen
the glottis, and render it capable of the fmallell quaver-
ings of the voice.
The arytenoidaei bring the arytenoid cartilages clofe
together, and prefs them againfl each other; and when
the cartilages are in this fituation, they may at the fame
time be inclined either forward by the tbyro-arytenoidaei,
or backward by the crico-arytenoidaei pofteriores. By
this means the glottis, when (hat, may be either relaxed
or tenfe ; and in this laft cafe it is intirely (hut, as when
we hold in our breath in {training.
The general ufe of-the epiglottis is to cover the glottis,
like a pent-houfe, and thereby hinder any thing from
falling into it when we eat or drink; it ferves likewife
to hinder the air which we infpire from rufliing diredtly
upon the glottis, but by fplitting it, as it were, obliges
it to enter by the fides, or in an oblique courfe. The
rnufcles. of the epiglottis do not appear to be abfolutely
neceffary for that cartilage; for in deglutition, it maybe
fufficiently deprdfed by the bafis of the tongue; and it
inay raife itfelf again by its own elafticity. The thyro-
epiglottici and aryteno-epiglqttici may ferve to {hut any
lateral openings that might remain when the epiglottis is
deprelfed by the baGs of the tongue; and the hyo-epi-
plottici may pull it a little forward in llrong refpirations^
as'in fighing, yawning, &£■.
The PHARYNX.
The pharynx is a mufcular and glandular bag, the out¬
er furface of which is clofely joined to the inner furface
of all that fpace which is at the bottom of the mouth,
behind’the pollerior nares, uvula, and larynx, and which
reaches from the great or anterior apophyfis of the os
qccipitis all the way to the cefophagus, which is the con¬
tinuation of the pharynx-
Though almoft all the mufcular or fle{hy portions of
which the pharynx is compofed, concur in the formation
of one continued bag or receptacle, they are nevertheiefs
very diftinguilhable from each other, not only by their
different infertions, from.which they have been denomi-
uated, but alfo by the different diredions-of their fibres.
The greateft part of them may be looked upon as diga-
ftric mufcles, the middle tendons of which lie backward
in one longitudinal line, which in fome fubjeds appears
plainly like a linea alba.
The cephalo-pharyngfEi are inferted in the lower fide
cf the apophyfis bafiliaris, or great apophyfis of the os
occipitis>, about the.middle of the pofterior part. From
thence they feparate laterally, and fometimes join the fty-
lo-pharyngasi. The linea alba of the pharynx begins by
the middle adhefion of thefe mufcles..
The petro-pharyngasi are inferted in the lower part of
the extremity of the apophyfis petrofa; the fpheno-pha-
ryngrei, partly in the os fphenoides, diredly above the
internal ala of the apophyfis.- pterygoides,. and partly in
the neighbouring cartilaginous portion of the Euftachian
tube; and the pterygo-pharyngaei, in the edge of the
fame ala of the apophyfis pterygoides. Thefe three muff
cles on each fide run obliquely backward,, covering each.
’ O M Y. Part VI.
other by fome fibres, and meet at the linea alba. Thei f
ufe may be to draw the middle portion or great cavity op
the pharynx upward.
The ftylo-pharyngaei are inferted interiorly by one ex¬
tremity in the apophyfis, or epiphyfis ftyloides. From
thence each mufcle runs down obliquely along the lateral
part of the pharynx, covering and crofling the other
mufcles. It extends gradually in breadth as it defeends,
and forms two principal portions, one fuperior which is
narrow, and one inferior which is broad. The narrow
portion is fpread among the mufcular fibres above the
t thyroid cartilage, and the broad portion is inferted in the
fide of that cartilage; and thus the ftylo-phar.yngaeus is
partly a true ftylo-thyroidseus. Thefe mufcles may draw
the pharynx laterally upward, efpecially by their thy¬
roid portions.
The peryftaphylo-pharyngaei are two fmall mufcles in¬
ferted between the uvula and lower extremity of the in¬
ternal ala of the apophyfis pterygoides, and run oblique¬
ly backward on the fides of the pharynx. The gloffo-
pharyngasi aire fibres which run along the lateral edges of
the tongue, from which they are parted backward, and
run down on the fides of the pharynx under the llylo-
pharyngaei.
The hyo-pharyngtei in general are tbofe on each fide
which are inferted in the os hyoides; and they may be
reckoned three pairs, the bafio-pharyngaei, kerato-pha-
ryngaei minores, and kerato-pharyngsei majores; thefe
denominations being taken from their infer.tions in the
bafis, and in the fmall and great cornua of the os hy-.
oides.
The mylo-pharyngaei is a mufcular portion diftinft from
the genio-gloffus, inferted in the fide of the pharynx.
The fyndefrno-pharyngari are fafciculi of mufcular fi-.
bres very diftindlly inferted by one end along the liga-;
ments by which the fuperior cornua of the cartilage thy-.
roides are connefled to the extremities of the great cor¬
nua of the os hyoides. From thence they run back-’
ward and meet at the linea alba.
The thyro-pharyngtei are very broad, and each mufcle!
is inferted along the outfide of the ala of the cartilago^
thyroides, between the edge of that cartilage -and the:
oblique line in which the thyro-hyoidsei are fixed. Fronn
thence they run up obliquely backward, and meet under
the linea alba.
The,crico-pharyngaei are inferted each in the lower
part of the fide of the cricoid cartilage. They feem tor
be appendices of the thyro-pharyngaei, {hewing no other
marks of diftindtion but thefe infertions, and a fmall dif¬
ference in dirediion, becaufe as they run backward they
defeend a little.
The loweff of thefe mufcular fibres make a complete,
circle backward, between the two fides of the bafis of
the cartilago cricoides. This circle is the beginning of
the oefophagus, and has been thought by fome to form a
diftindl mufcle, called efophagaus.
The particular ufes of all thefe mufcles are very diffi¬
cult to be determined. It is certain that thofe of the
middle and lower portions of the pharynx ferve chiefly
for deglutition.
Th!
Fart VI.
ANA
The P A L A T E, U V U L A. 6c.
The palate is that arch or cavity of the mouth, fur-
rounded anteriorly by the alveolary edge and teeth of the
upper jaw, and reaching from thence to the great opening
of the pharynx. This arch is partly folid and immove¬
able, and partly foft and moveable. The folid portion
is that which is bounded by the teeth, being formed by
the two ofla maxillarja, and two ofla palati. The foft
portion lies behind the other, and runs backward like a
veil fixed to the edge of the ofla palati, being formed
partly by the common membrane of the whole arch, and
partly by feveral mufcular fafciculi, '6c.
, The membrane that covers all this' cavity is like that
which lines the fuperior and middle portions of the pha¬
rynx. It is very thick fet with final! glands, the orifices
of which are not fo fenfible as in the pharynx, and efpe-
cially in the rugx of the fuperior portion thereof.
This membrane, together with that of the pofterior
n'ares, forms, by an uninterrupted continuation, the an¬
terior and pofterior furface of the foft portion, or feptum,
palati; fo that the mufcular fafciculi of this portion lie
in the duplicatnre of a gjandulous membrane.
: The feptum,. which may likewife be termed velum, or
vttlvula palati. terminates below by aloofe floating edge,
reprefenting an arch fituated tranfverfely above the balls
or root of the tongue. The higheft portion or top of
this arch fuftains a fmall, foft, and irregularly conical
glandulous body, fixed by its bafis to the arch, and its
apex hanging, down without adhering to any thing, which
is called uvula.
, On each fide of the uvula there are two mufcular half
arches, called column# ftpti paletli. T hey are all join¬
ed to the uvula by their upper extremities, and difpofed
in fitch a tnannei', as that the "lower extremities of the
two which lie on the fame fide are at a little diftance
from each other, and fo as that one half-arch is anterior,,
the other pofterior, an oblong triangular fpace being left
between them, the apex of which is turned toward the
' bafis of the uvula.
i The two half arches on one fide, by joining tire like
half arches on the other fide, form the entire arch of the
| edge of the feptum. The pofterior half arches'runr by
their upper extremities, more diredly toward the uvula
than the anterior. The anterior half arches have a con¬
tinuation with the fides of the bafis of the. tongue,, and
the pofterior with the fides of the pharynx. At the.
1 lower part of the fpace left between the lateral half
arches on the fame fide,, two glands are fituated, termed
I amygdala.
• The half arches are chiefly made up of feveral-flat
1 flefliy portions, almoft in the,fame manner with the body
of the feptum. The membrane which covers them is
thinner than the other parts of it towards the palate, pha¬
rynx, and tongue. Each portion is a-diftind mufcle, the
greateft part of which terminate by one extremity in the
fubftance of the feptum and of the half arches, and by
the other extremity in parts different from thefe.
As apatomifts ufed formerly to aferibe all thefe muf-
cles, as far as they knew them, to the uvula,. without
T O M Y. 3,03-
any regard to the feptum, they termed-them in general
either ptery-Jlaphylini. or peri-Jlaphylini.
The glofib-ftaphylini are two fmall mufcles, fixed each
in the lower and lateral part of the bafis of the tongue;
from whence they run up obliquely backward along the
anterior half arches of rhe feptum palati, and terminate
infenfibly on each' fide near the uvula, fome of their fibres
being fpread through the feptum.
. • The pharyngo-ftaphylini are" likewife two fmall muf-
ejes, each of them being fixed by one extremity to th^
lateral part of the mufeuli thyro-pharyngati, as if they
were portions detached from thefe mufcles. From
thence they run up obliquely forward along the two po¬
fterior half arches of the feptum, and terminate in the
feptum above the .uvula, where they meet together, and
feem to form an entire arch by the union of their fibres.
The thyro-ftaphylini are two fmall mufcles, which ac¬
company the pharyngo-ftaphylini very clofely, through
their whole courfe, except that their pofterior extremi¬
ties are fixed in the thyroid cartilages near the other-
raufcles. They are inferred in the feptum in the fame
manner with the former.
The fpheno-falpingo-ftaphylini are each fixed by one
extremity, partly to the fphenoidal fide of the bony por¬
tion of the Euftacliian tube, partly to the neareft foft-
portion of the fame tube. From thence it runs toward-
the external ala of the apophyfis pterygoides, into which
one portion of this mufcle is inferted. The other por¬
tion runs to the end of the ala, and turns round to the
forked extremity thereof, as over a pulley, and is after¬
wards inferted in the feptum palati, near the. uvula.
The pterygo-ftaphylinus fuperior is- fo named becaufe;
it has a fma!linfertion in the upper part of the apophyfis,
pterygoides, befides that in the fphenbidal part of the
bony portion of the tube. The pterygo-ftaphylinus infe¬
rior, on each fide, is a fmall mufcle, inferted by one ex¬
tremity in- the uncus pterygoidams,. and by the other im-
the feptum near the uvula.
The petro-falpingo-ftaphylini, or falpingo ftaphylini in--
terni, are thofe which are commonly called peri-Jlaphylini.
interni. "Each mufcle is fixed by one extremity, partly
to the inner fide of the bony portion of. the Euftachi n.
tube, or-that next the apophyfis petrofa, partly along,
the cartilaginous portion of tjie lame tube. From thence,
it paffes a little way under the foft membranous part, and,
then, turning toward the feptum, is fixed in the edge, and
partly in the upper fide thereof.
The ftaphylini, or epiftaphylini, are two fmall flefliy"
ropes, clofely united together, as if they made but one,
mufcle. They are fixed by one extremity in the common,
point of the pofterior edges of the.ofla palati, and from:
thence run downward and backward along.the middle of,
the feptum, and likewife along, the middle of almoft the.,
'whole uvula. Thefe mufcles have been termed azygos
Morgagnii> from the dafeoverer, but he confidered them.
as one mufcle. The pterygo-ftaphylini inferiore-s are of
the fame kind, and might be termtA Jlaphylini, or tfi-
Jiaphylini laterals’, and thefe lift,. medii.
The feptum palatr ferves to condmft the lachrymal,
lympha, and that which is continually collefled on the.
arch of the, palate, into the pharynx. It ferves for a.
* valve-
304 A N A T
valve to hinder what we fwallow, and efpecially what we
drink, from returning by the nares. Xhe ufes of the
different mufcles of the feptum are not as yet fufficiently
known, nor the different motions of which it is capable.
The TONGUE.
The tongue is divided into the bails and point; the
tipper and under fides ; and the lateral portions or edges.
The bafis is the pofterior and thickefl part; the point,
the anterior and thinned part. The upper iide is not
quite flat, but a little convex, and divided into two late¬
ral halves, by a fhallow depreffed line, called linea lin¬
gua mediana. The edges are thinner than the other
parts, and a little rounded as well as the point. The
lower fide reaches only from the middle of the length of
the tongue to the point.
The tongue is principally compofed of very foft flefhy
fibres, intermixed with a particular medullary fubdance,
and difpofed in various manners. Many of thefe fibres
are confined to the tongue without going any farther, the
red form feparate mufcles which g > out from it in differ¬
ent ways, and are inferred in other parts. All the upper
fide of the tongue is covered by a thick membrane of a
papillary texture, upon which lies another very fine
membrane like a kind of epidermis, which is likewife
continued over the lower fide, but without papillae.
Three forts of papillae may be didinguifhed in the up¬
per fide of the tongue, capitatae, femi-lenticulares, and
villofae. Thofe of the fird kind are the larged, refem-
bling little mufhrooms with fhort dems, or buttons with¬
out a neck. They lie on the bafis of the tongue in fmall
fuperficial foffulae.
They refemble fmall conglomerate ^glands feated on a
very narrow bafis, and each of them has fometimes a
fmall depreffion in the middle of their upper or convex
fide. They occupy the whole furface of the bafis of the
tongue. They are glandular papillae, or fmall falival or
mucilaginous glands.
We oftentimes obferve, about the middle of this part
of the tongue, a particular hole of different depths, the
inner furface of which is entirely glandular, and filled
with fmall papillae, like thofe of the fird kind. It is
called foramen cacum Morgagnii, as being fird deferi-
bed by that anthor. Since that time M. Vaterus has
difeovered a kind of falival dudts belonging to it; and
M. Heider found two of thefe du<ds very didimdly, the
orifices of which were in the bottom of the foramen cse-
enm near each other. He obferved the dufts to run
backward, divaricating a little from each other, and that
one of them terminated in a fmall oblong veficle fituated
on the fide of the fmall cornu of the os hyoides.
The papillae of the fecond kind, or femi-lenticulares,
are fmall orbicular eminences, only a little convex, their
circular edge not being feparate from the furface of the
tongue. When we examine them in a found tongue,
with*a good microfcope, we find their convex fides full
of fmall holes or pores, like the end of a thimble.
They lie chiefly in the middle and anterior portions of
the tongue, and are fometimes mod yifible on the edges,
O M Y. Part VI,
where they appear to be very fmooth and poliflied, even
to the naked eye. '
The papillae of the third kind, or villofae, are the
fmalled and mod numerous. They fill the whole lurfa’ce
of the upper fide of the tongue, and even the interdicesr
between the other papillae.
The flelhy fibres of which the tongue is compofed,
and which go no further than the tongue, may be termed:
inufeuli lingua interiores; and they are the fame which
Spigelius named mufeuU linguales. The fibres theie
mufcles confid of are of three general kinds, longitudi¬
nal, tranfverfe, and vertical; and each of thefe fituations
admits of different degrees of obliquity. The longitu¬
dinal fibres point to the bafis and apex of the tongue, and
feem partly to be expanfions of the mufeuli dylo-gloffi,
hyo-gloffi, and genio-gloili; of which hereafter. The'
vertical fibres feem likewife to be in part produced by the
fame genio-gloffi, and the tranfverfe by the mylo-gloili.
The mufeuli exteriores are four in number, and make
a part of the body of the tongue.
The mylo-glofli are fmall flefhy planes, fituated tranf-
verfely, one on each fide, between the ramus of the lower
jaw, and the bafis of the tongue. Their infertion in the
jaw is immediately above the pode iorhalf of the mylo-hy-
oideeus, between the prominent oblique line on the infide
of the bone, and the dentes molares. From thence they
run toward-the bafis of the tongue, and are lod thereon
one fide of the gloffo-pharyngaei.
The flylo-glofli are two long fmall mufcles which run
down from the ftyloid apophyfes, or epiphyfes, and form,
two portions of the lateral parts of the tongue. Each
mufcle is fixed in the outfide of the apophyfis ftyloides-
by a long tendon. The ftylo-hyoidseus is the loweft,
and the ftylo-pharyngseus is in the middle, but more:
backward.
As it runs down almoft oppofite to the infide of the.
angle of the lower jaw, it fends off a pretty broad and'
fliort lateral aponeurotic ligament, which being fixed in
that angle ferves for a fraenum, or ligamentum fufpen-1
forium, to the mufcle in this part of its courfe. From
thence it paffes on to the fide of the bafis of the tongue,
where it firftof all adheres clofely to the lateral portion
of the hyo-gloffus, and then forms, together with that
mufcle, a large portion of the fide of the tongue.
The hyo-glofli are each inferred in three parts of the
os hyoides that lie near each other, in the bafis, in the-
root of the great cornu, and in the fympbyfis between'
thefe two; and on this account the hyo-gloffus has been
divided by fome into two or three diftihft mufcles, called
bafio-glcjfus, csrato-glojfus, and chondrp-gloffus.
It is fituated on the infide, and a little lower than the-
ftylo-gloffus, with which it forms the lateral part of the
tongue. The portion inferred in the bafis of the os hy¬
oides lies more anteriorly, and is larger than the other
two; that which is inferred in the fymphyfis is the leaft,
and that inferred in the great cornu the molt p dlerior.
This mufcle is partly fuftained by the mylo-hyoidseus, as
by a girth ; and the anterior portion is diftinguifhed from
the reft by the paffage of the nerves of the fifth pair, and
of the arteries which accompany them.
The genio-gloffi are fituated clofe to each other on the
lower
Fart VL ANA T
■lower fide of the tongue. Each mufcle is inferted in the
inner or backfide of the fynrphyfis of the lower jaw,
immediately above the genio-hyoidjeus. From thence
it runs backward toward the. os hyeides, to which, the
lowed fibres are corme&ed by a ligamentary membrane;
■and in this courfe its fibres are fpread through the fub-
idance of the tongue in a very lingular manner.
Of thefe fibres, fome run diredtly towards the os hy-
oides, all the way to.the balls of the tongue; fome are
infledted forward, and go to the point of the tongue ; and
the reft are diftributed in a radiated manner, forward,
upward, and backward in the fubftance of the tongue;
and the middle fibres expand laterally toward the edges
■of the tongue.
The two genio-glolli run clofe to each other, as if they
formed but one mals ; but they are evidently divided by
a very thin cellular membrane, or middle feptum, which
penetrates a good way between the two lateral, or right
and left halves of the tongue, lying in the fame pi me
with the linea mediana of the upper fide of the tongue.
Thefe two mufcles, by their pofterior ftreight fibres
which go to the balls, can draw the tongue out of the
mouth, and bring it back again by their anterior bent fi¬
bres which go to the point. They can either fucceffive-
ly, or all at once, make the tongue longitudinally hol¬
low or like a groove; and they can at the fame time con-
•tradt it, by the lateral expanfion of their middle fibres.
When either of the ftylo-glofli afts, it turns the tongue
toward the cheek, and forces the aliment between the
upper and lower molares. When they adt jointly with
the lateral portions of the fuperior llelhy plane of the
tongue, they turn the tongue obliquely upward to the
teeth of the upper jaw, and near the cheeks, as when
■we bring down any part of the food that may have ftuck
there after maftication. When they adt jointly with
the lateral portions of the hyo-glofli, they turn the tongue
downward between the lower teeth and the cheek.
When all the parts of the hyo-glolfi adt together, they
i Ihorten the tongue. They likewife turn the point of the
tongue between the teeth and the under lip, and make it
pafs over that lip. The fuperior fleftiy plane of the bo¬
dy of the tongue bends it upward toward the palate, and
makes it pafs along or lick the upper lip. The mylo-
f .gloffi ferve as a fraenum to one fide of the bads, while
the point is turned to the other fide. The ligamenta
I fufpenforia of the ftylo-gloffi may anfwer the fame pur-
pofe, and even fupply the want of the mylo-gloffi.
I The tongue is fixed in the mouth, not only by muf¬
cles, but alfo by ligaments, which are for the moft part
I membranous. The principal ligament is dial called the
franutK, which is the prominent fold that appears firft
, : Under the tongue, when we raife it, with the mouth o-
pened, and is no more than a continuation or loofe dupli-
ii cature of that membrane which covers the inferior cavity
■ of the mouth. It covers the curvature of the anterior
I , portion of the genio-glofii from the point of the tongue,
II almoft as high as the middle interflice between the lower
dentes inciforii.
The other ligaments of the tcngue are the fmall mem-
: branous fold which runs along the middle of the convex
fide of the epiglottis, to the bafis of the tcngue; and
Vol. I. No. 13. 3
O' M Y, 305
•the membranous folds which cover • the inferior half
,arches of the feptum palati. Thefe three folds are con¬
tinuations of the membrane which covers the neighbour¬
ing parts. The aponeurotic ligaments of the ftylo-glcfiua
may be looked upon as true lateral ligaments of the
tongue; and they adhere a little to the lower part of
the mulculus pt-erygoidaeus internes, or anterior.
The tongue is the organ of the fenfe called the
-by means of the papillae, efpecially the villofae or pyra-
■midales.
The tongue is likewife one of the principal inftruments
of fpeech, and of the articulation of the voice.
The tongue ferves alfo to colled all the morfels which
we chew, to turn them in different manners, and to dif¬
ferent parts of the mouth, and to rub off whatever flicks
to the palate; and it is ufeful in fpitting, fucking, &c.
It bears a great part in deglutition, being aiftfted by the
digaftric mufcles, which, by contrading at the fame time
that the other mufcles prefs the lower jaw againft the
the upper, raife the os hyoides, and fix it at a convenient
height, that the ftylo glofli and hyo-gloffi may make the
balls of the tongue bear back upon the morfel which is
to be fwallowed, and to force it into the pharynx, the
portions of which that are at that time immediately above
the morfel, do inftantly contrad, and pufh it into the ce-
fophagus.
The CHEEKS, LIPS, and GUMS.
The cheeks and lips form the fides and entry of the
cavity of the mouth. They are formed jn general by
the connedion of feveral flefliy portions of different
■breadths, fixedjound the convex fides of the two jaws,
covered on the outfide with the fkin and fat, and lined on
the infide by a glandulous membrane. Befides all this,
the lips feem likewife to have a foft fpungy fubftance in
their compofition, which fwells and fubfides on certain
occafions independently of the adion of the mufcles be¬
longing to them, and is mixed with fat.
The fubftance v/hich forms the red border of the lips
is very different from the reft of the Ikin, being a colledion
of very fine, long, villous papilla:, clofely conncded to¬
gether, and covered by a fine membrane, which feems to
be both a continuation of the epidermis, and of that pel¬
licle which covers the glandulous membrane of the cavity
of the mouth. This fubftance is extremely fenfible,
•and very , painful when the Outer membrane is by any ac¬
cident deftroyed. The internal membrane of the upper
lip forms a fmall middle frsenum above the firft dentes
inciforii.
The gums are that reddifh fubftance like leather,
which covers the tv/o fides of the whole alveolary border
of both jaws, infinuates itfelf between all the teeth, fur-
rounds the collar of each tooth in particular, and adheres
very ftrongly to them. Therefore the outer and inner
■gums are continuous, and both together form juft as ma¬
ny openings as there are teeth.
The fubftahee of the gums is of a very Angular ftruc-
ture, refembling in fome meafure the texture of a hat,
fuppofed to be very compad and elaftic. It is not imme¬
diately fixed to the bones of the jaws, but by the inter-
j- 4 H vention
A N A T
ventibn of the f?erioileum, with which it is perfedlly uni¬
ted ; and it is covered by a fine, ftrong, even membrane,
which flicks very clofe to the fubflance of the gums, and
feems to be a continuation of that thin membrane which
goes to the lips and cheeks, and of that which goes to the
tongue.
There is fo much variety to be met with in the muf-
des of the lips in different fubjefts, that it is not at all
furprifing-to find the defcriptions given of them by ana-
tomifls very unlike one another. In fome fubjefts, por¬
tions of thefe mufcles are wanting; in fome they can
fcarcely be diftinguilhed, becaufe of the palenefs and at¬
tenuation of the fibres ; and in others there are really
fome particular fafciculi which are not generally to be
found.
The mufcles of the lips are commonly divided into
common and proper. The common mufcles are thofe
which end at the angles and commiffures of the two lips;
and thofe are proper which are fixed in one lip only,
which are again fubdivided into the proper mufcles of
the upper lip, and proper mufcles of the under lip. All
thefe mufcles have particular names, fome of which are
taken from foniething in the conformation of the muf-
des, fome from the infertions or fituation, and fome
from the ufes attr ibuted to them.
Tlje femi-orbiculares are commonly looked upon as one
mtilde, furrounding both lips, from whence it is called
orbicularis ; but when we examine carefully the angles
of the lips, we find that the fibres of the upper lip inter-
feft thofe of the under lip, and we eafily dillinguilh the
mufcular arch of one lip from that of the other ; and for
this reafon this mufcle Ihould be divided into two, wz.
orbicularis or femi-orbicularis 1'uperior, and femi-orbi-
culuris inferior.
The fuperior femi-orbicular mufele is oftentimes broad¬
er than the inferior; and it has this peculiarity likewife,
that all its fibres do not go to the corner of the mouth,
but terminate by degrees between the middle and extre¬
mities of this arch. The inferior femi-orbicular mufcle
is commonly more uniform in the difpofition of its fibres.
The fupra-femi-orbiculares are fibres which increale
the breadth of the two lateral portions of the fuperior
femi-orbicularis, upward; and they appear at firft fight
to be one-continued arch like the mufcle lad named.
Their other extremities are confounded with thofe of the
femi-orbicularis fnperior.
The tyucbinatores are two in number, each of them fi-
tuated tranfverfely between the poflerior part of the two
jaws, and the corner of the mouth. They are broad
backward, and narrower forward, in the Ihape of a tri¬
angle or trapezium, and they form a confiderable portion
of the cheeks, and for that reafon are fometimes called
the mufctet of the cheeks. To have a juft idea of thefe
mufcles, we muff be made aquainted with the Kgamentum
inter-maxillare, on each fide of the face, becaufe it con-
nefts the two jaws, and alfb gives infertion to the pofte-
rior fibres of the buccinator.
This ligament is ftrong and pretty broad. It is fixed
by one end to the outfide of the upper jaw, above the laft
dens mokris, and at the fide of the apophyfis pterygoides,
where it adheres very clolely to the mufculus pterygoi-
O M Y. Part VI.
dams internus. By the other end it is fixed in the pofte-
rior or fuperior extremity of the oblique prominent line
on the outfide of the lower jaw, below the laft dens mo-
laris. It ferves likewife as a fraenum to check and limit
the deprefiton of the lower jaw in opening the mouth.
The buccinator is inferted pofteriorly in three diffe¬
rent places. The middle fibres are fixed tranfverfidy in
the ligamentum intermaxillare, and run direftly to the
corner of the mouth. The fuperior; fibres run down in
an oblique graduated manner, from’ the alveoli of the up¬
per jaw to the corner of the mouth ; and the inferior fi¬
bres run up from the lower jaw in the fame manner. Ail
thefe fibres contrail by degrees as they approach the com-
miffure of the lips, where they run in behind the extre¬
mities and union of the femi orbiculaVes, by which they
are covered, and to which they adhere clofely. There
is a large hollow between this mufcle and the maffeter,
filled with fat.
The zygomatici majores are two mufcles fituated, one
on each fide*, between the zygoma and the corner of the
mouth. Each mufcle is thin, long, oblique, and fixed
by one extremity to the lower edge of that portion of the
os malse, which is connected with the zygomatic apophy¬
fis of the os temporis. From thence it runs down ob¬
liquely from behind forward, being in its paffage common¬
ly involved in fat. It ends at the commiffure of the two
lips, adhering ftrongly to the buccinator which covers it.
The zygomatici minores are two fmall flender mufcles,
lying above the great zygomatici, and almoft parallel to
them. Their fuperior extremity feems to be a detach¬
ment from the lower fibres of the orbicularis palpebra-.
rum; but they may always be diftinguilhed. Their
lower extremity unites with the neighbouring inciforius.
Thefe mufcles are quite buried in fat, and, for that rea¬
fon, often difappear.
Each of the two canini is fixed by a broad infertion in
the upper jaw, above the focket of the dens caninus, in
a depreilion below the inferior edge of the orbit near the
os mate. From thence it runs down a little obliquely,,
crolling the lower extremity of the zygomaticus major,,
which covers it at this place. Afterwards it terminates
at the extremity of the arch of the femi-orbicularis fu¬
perior, and communicates by fome fibres with the trian¬
gularis.
Each of the two inciforii laterales is a fort of biceps-,
its upper part being divided into two portions which unite
below. One of thefe fuperior portions is larger than the
other, and is fixed in the os maxiHare below the middle
tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum. From thence it
runs down a little obliquely toward the cheek, along the
apophyfis nafalis, mixing with the pyramidalis nafi, and
fending fome fibres to the nares, Afterwards it paffes
over and adheres to the myrtiformis, or tranfverfalis nafi,
and unites with the other portion.
This other portion is fixed by a broad infertion, im¬
mediately below the edge of the orbit, in the os maxil-
lare, near the union of this bone with the os mate, and
likewife a little in the laft named bone, being at this place
covered by the inferior portion of the orbicularis palpe¬
brarum. From thence it runs down obliquely toward
the nofe, and unites with the fixft portion.
Part VI. ANA
. The two portions, thus united and contracted in
Breadth, run behind the femi-orbicularis fuperior, and
are fixed therein oppofite to the lateral dens inciforius.
The inciforii medii are two fmall (hort mufcles, fitu-
tuated near each other, below the feptum narium. They
are fixed by one extremity in the os maxillare, on the
alvdoli of the firft incifores behind the femi-orbicularis
fuperior; and, by their other extremity, in the middle
and fuperior part of the fubftance of the upper lip, near
the nares, in whicli they likewife have an infertion.
Each of the two triangulares is fixed by a broad ex¬
tremity, in the outfide of the bafis of the lower jaw, from
the mafieter, to the hole near the chin: From thence it
afcends, contracting in breadth in a bent triangular form,
runs in between the extremities of the buccinator and zy-
gomaticus major; to both which it adheres very clofely,
and terminates at the commilfure of the lip, partly in the
femi-orbicularis fuperior, and partly in the femi-orbicula-
ris inferior.
The quadratus forms the thick part of the chin below
the under lip. It is firft of all inferred in the forefide of
'the lower jaw, where it partly fills the broad foffula on
each fide of the fymphyfis. From thence it runs up, in-
terfeCting, along the fymphyfis, the contiguous fibres of
the Ikin, and terminates by a broad infertion in the femi-
orbicularis inferior.
The inciforii inferiores are two fmall mufcles, each of
them fixed by the fuperior extremity on the alveoli of
the lateral incifores of the lower jaw. From thence
they run down, approaching each other, and are inferted
together in the lower part of the middle of the femi-or¬
bicularis inferior.
The two mufeuli cutanei form a kind of flclhy mem¬
brane, which covers the whole forefide of the throat
and neck, frdm the cheek and chin, all the way down
below the clavicular.
The fibres of each cutaneous mufcle run obliquely up¬
ward and forward, and meet, and feem to interfeCt thofe
of the other mufcle at acute angles, from the fternum
all the way to the chin. They adhere very clofely to
the Ikin 'by the intervention of the cellular fubftance.
From the clavicles to the upper part of the neck thefe
mufcles are very thin, and from thence increafe a little
in thicknefs as they approach the bafis of the lower jaw,
•and efpecially from the mafleter to the chin.
They adhere ftrongly to the lower portion of the maf-
feter, triangularis, and quadratus, and on the mafieter
and buccinator their flelhy fibres become aponeurotic,
but continue longer on the triangularis, being mixed with
the fibres of that mufcle all the way to. the commiffure
of the lips. They likewife advance a little on the
neighbouring portion of the qnadratus.
The common mufcles of the lips either draw both
^corners of the mouth at once, or only one at a time, ac¬
cording to the different direction of their fibres.. The
proper mufcles pull the different parts of the lips in
which they are inferted. The buccinators in particular
may ferve to move the food in maflication. An intire
trearife might be written on the almoll innumerable com
binations of the different motions of all thefe mufcles,
according to the different palfions, and according to the
T O M Y. joy
different poftures in which a man may put his face.
None are more affe&ing, than. thofe produced by the
cutanei alone, efpecially in weeping, which they do by
their adhefions to the triangulares, eirc. But by their,
infertions in the bone of the lower jaw, they draw up
the lower part of the integuments of the neck, and
thofe of the bread; next to thefe; for they cannot move
the jaw.
The SALIVAL GLANDS.
By faliva we mean, in general, that fluid by which the
mouth and tongue are continually moiftened in their na¬
tural Hate. This fluid is chiefly fupplied by glands,
called, for that reafon, glandule fahvales, of which,
they commonly reckon three pairs, two parotides, two
maxillares, and two fublinguales. Thefe are indeed the
larged, and they furnilh the greated quantities-of faliva-
but there are a gre^t number of other lefler glands of
the fame kind, which may be reckoned affidants or fub-.
dilutes to the former.
The parotides are two large, whitiih glands, irregu¬
larly oblong and protuberant, fituated on each fide, be¬
tween the external ear, and the poderior or afeending
ramus of the lower jaw, and lying on fome part of the
neighbouring mafleter mufcle. The fuperior portion of
this gland lies before the cartilaginous meatus of the ear,
and touches the apophyfis zygomatica of the os tempo-
ris; and it is extended forward and backward under the
lobe of the ear, as far as the mafloid apophyfis.
From the anterior and fuperior portion of this gland,
a white membranous diufl or canal is produced by the;
union of a great.number of fraall tubes regrefenting fo
many roots. This du<d runs obliquely, forward bn the
outfide of the mafleter, and then perforates the bucci¬
nator from without inward, oppofite to the interflice,,
between the fecond and third dentes mo!are», where the
hole or orifice reprefents the fpout. of an ewer.
This canal is named dutius faliva Its Slenonis, or duc~
tus fuperior. It is about the twelfth part of an inch in
diameter. The arteria and vena angularis run up ovir
this duct, and the portio dura of the auditory nerve rung
through the gland itfclf; and it alfo receives filaments
from the fecond vertebral pair.
The maxillary glands are fmaller and rounder than the
parotides, and are fituated each on the infide of the angle
of the lower jaw,, near the mufculuS pterygoidaeus infe¬
rior. From the infide, or that which is turned to the
mufculus hyo-gloflus, each of them fends out a duff in.
the fame manner as the parotidea, hut it is fmaller and
longer, and goes by the name of dull us falivalis f¥har to¬
ri i, or dullus inferior.
This duff advances on the fide of the mufculus genio-
gloflus, along the inner part and fuperior edge of the
glandula fubfingualik, to the frsenum of the tongue, where
it terminates by a fmall orifice in form of a papilla.
The glandulae fiiblrnguaks* are: likewife two in number,,
of the fame kind with the former, only fmaller, fome-
thing oblong, and flatted like a blanched almond. They
are fituated under the anterior portion of the tongue,,
one on eacli fide, near tbe lower jaw,, on the lateral por-
’ - turns,
$o8E A N A f
tions of. the mufcuti mylo-hyoidaei which fuftain them.
They are covered on the upper (ide by a very thin
membrane, which is a continuation of the membrane that
covers the under fide of the tongue. They fend out la¬
terally feveral fmall Ihort du<5ts which openjiear the gums
by the fame number of orifices, all ranked in the fame
fine, at a fmall diftance from the frxnum, and a little
more backward.
The molares are two glands nearly of the fame kind
with the'former, each of them being Ikuated between the
maiTeter and.buccinator; they fend out fmall dudts which
perforate the buccinator, and open into the cavity of the
mouth, almoft over againft the laft dentes molares.
All the infide of the cheeks near the mouth, is full of
fmail giandulous bodies, called glandula buccales, which
open by fmall holes or orifices through the inner mem¬
brane of the mouth The membrane which covers the
jufide of the lips, a continuation of that on the cheeks,
is likewife perforated by a great number of fmall holes,
which anfwer to die fame number of fmall glands, called
glandija labiales. The glandulae linguales are thofe of
the foramen caecum of the bafis of the tongue.
The glandulae palatine, or thofe that belong to the
arch and feptum of the palate, have already been defcri-
bed, and the glandute arytenoidaeae'were defcribed with
the larynx. The uvular glands are only a continuation
of the membrane of the palate in form of a fmall bunch
of grapes.
The amygdalx are two glandular bodies of a reddifh
colour, lying in the interftices between the two lateral
half arches of the feptum palati, one on the right, the
other on the left fide of the bafis of the tongue. Their
appearance is not unlike that of the outfide of an almond-
fhell, both becaufe their furface is uneven, and becaufe
it is full of holes big enough to admit the head of a
large pin.
Thefe holes, which reprefent a fieve, or a piece of net¬
work, are continued to an irregular finus or cavity within
the gland, filled commonly with a vifcid fluid, which
comes from the bottom of the finus, and is from thence
gradually difcharged through thefe holes into the throat.
The thyroid gland is a large whitilh mafs which covers
the anterior convex fide of the larynx. It feems at firft
fight to be made up of two oblong glandular portions,
united by their inferior extremities, below the cricoid
cartilage, in fuch a manner as to have fame refemblance
to a crefcent, with the cornua turned upward. It is of
a moderate thicknefs, and bent laterally like the thyroid
cartilage, from which its name is taken. The two late¬
ral portions lie on the mufculi thyro-hyoidxi, and the
middle or inferior portion on the crico thyroidxi. The
thyro-pharyngxi inferiores fend fibres over this gland,
and they communicate on each fide by fome fuch fibres
With the flerno-thyroidxi and hyo-thyroidxi.
GLANDULE LYMPHATICS.
Below each of the firft falival glands above defcribed,
or parotids, toward the maftoid apophyfis, is fixed a fmall
gland of another kind, diflfering from the former in fi-
<3 M Y. Part VI,
gure, colour, excretory du<ft, and in the fluid which it
fecretes. It is round, and of an even furface,' without
tubercles; and it is the uppermoft of'a great number of
glands of the fame kind, which he partly below the in-
terftice between the parotid and maxillary glands, and
at different diftances, along the internal jugular vein, all
the way to the lower part of the neck. We obferve a-
mong thefe glands, and upon this vein, a great number of
tranfp’arent veflels, with an appearance of numerous
valves. The fluid which they contain is tranfparent, a
little mucilaginous, and is called lympka.
Thefe veflels are likewife termed veffels, and
the glands lymphatic glands. Thefe glands are not all
equally large, nor equally round, fome being oblong,
thick, flat, fmall, dye. The lymphatic veflels go out
alternately by one extremity from one gland, and enter
by the other extremity fome other gland near the former,
and both as they-go out, and as they enter thefe extre^*-
mities, are very much ramified. The trunk is common¬
ly‘Angle ; and the valves are fo difpofed, as that the fluid
contained in the vefiel can only run toward the thorax,
but cannot return to the head.
Thefe glands and veflels are to be found in many other
parts of the body. We meet with them not only in fe-
Veral parts of the head, but alfo in many outward and
inward parts of the thorax, abdomen, and both extremi¬
ties. They accompany the maxillary falival glands, as
well as the parotids; and there are feveral fpread on the
lateral and bade fides of the neck, in the membrana adi-
pofa, near the mufcles.
In the cavity of the thorax, the lymphatic glands are
fituated at different diftances on one fide, and behind the
oefophagus, efpecially at the place which is even with the
fifth vertebra of the back. There are fome on the an¬
terior portion of the diaphragm, on one fide of the me-
diaftinuni; and there are others round the bafis of the
heart, in the fat which lies there. They are to be met
witli likewife in the fubftance of the membrana adipofa
which covers the thorax, near the inner furface, efpe¬
cially about the clavicles, and in the cellular interftrees
of the mufcles which lie on the thorax.
In the cavity of the abdomen thefe glands are very nu¬
merous, and particularly round the fuperior orifice, and
fan the two curvatures of the ftomach ; on the capfula of
the finus of the vena portx; on the cellular ligament of
the veficula fellis; near the beginning of tire duflus cyr
ftreus; at the adhefiotrs of the omentum to the fpleen,
and to the colon ; through the whole extent of the me-
fentery; at the adhefions of the mefocolon; behind the
adhefions of thefe two membranes to the vertebrx of the
loins ; near the bifurcation of the aorta ; and along the
iliac veffels. There are likewife other fuch glands on
the outfide of the abdomen, in the fubftance, and toward
the infide of the membrana adipofa.
In the fuperior extremities of the body thefe gland?
lie chiefly under die articulation of the os humeri with
the fcapula, in the hollow of the axilla. The moft con-
fiderable lymphatic glands in the lower extremity are
toward the lower part of the inguina, commonly called
the inguinal glands, to which the fafeia lata, or crural a-
poneurofis, gives a kind of double capfula, which makes
fome
Part VI. A N A T
fome of them lie very near the fldn, and the reft at a
greater diftance from it.
As thefe lymphatic glands differ more in fituation than
in fize or figure, they are commonly enumerated and de¬
nominated from the places where they lie; e. g.
Glandulse parotides lymphaticse,
Glandulse maxillares lymphaticse,
Glandulae jugulares, 6'c.
The lymphatic veflels were difcovered more than an
hundred years ago. But their nature and origin were
not underftood till Dr Alexander Monro, prefent Pro-
feflor of Anatomy in the Univerfity of Edinburgh, pu-
blifhed his treatife, De Vents Lymphulicis Vahulofts, in
the year 1757. In this treatife the Dodtor has proved,
by many accurate experiments, That the lymphatic veffels
are a fyftem of abforbents: That they are not continua¬
tions of the arteries or veins ; but that they are a diftinft
fyftem of veflels, deftined for abforbing a pellucid liquor
called lymph, from the different cavities of the body, <bc.
and for tranfmitting it to the blood, by the contradtion
O M Y. 309
of their coats, and the preffure of the neighbouring parts.
Befides thefe veffels which accompany the glands,
there are others of the fame ftrudlure foupd on the feve-
ral vifcera, where no lymphatic glands have hitherto been
difcovered. We meet with them in very great numbers
in the external membrane of the liver, and in the dupli-
cature of the fuperior membranous ligament of this vifeus.
Another fort of veffels termed lymphatics, are the
fmall arteries and veins, which, in the natural ftate,
tranfmit only the ferous part of the blood. Thefe vef¬
fels differ from the abforbent lymphatics in the fmallnefs
of their diameter, and in their ftrudture and fituation.
All thefe little arteries and veins are uniform, extremely
narrow; and though their fides are not thinner than thofe
of the valvular lymphatics, yet their diameters are gene¬
rally lefs. The other lymphatics are full of valves, and
very thin, but they are not narrow in proportion. The
arterial and venal lymphatics are found on the parts
which are naturally white, as on the fkin, the white of
the eye, <bc.
EXPLANATION of PLATE XXL
Figure i. Shews the lachrymal canals, after the
common teguments and bones have been cut away.
a, The lachrymal gland, b. The two pundta lachryma-
lia, from which the two lachrymal canals proceed to
• * c, the lachrymal fac. d, The large lachrymal dudt.
e, Its opening into the nofe. f. The caruncula la-
chrymalis. g, The eye ball.
Fig. 2. An anterior view of the coats and humours
of the eye.
a a a a, The tunica fclerotica cut in four angles, and
I turned back, b b b b, The tunica choroides adhering
to the infide of the fclerotica, and the ciliary veffels
are feen paffing over—c c, The retina, which covers
the vitreous humour. d d. The ciliary proceffes,
* which were continued from the choroid coat, e e, The
| iris, f, The pupil.
Fig. 3. Shews the optic nerves, and mufcles of the eye.
a a, The two optic nerves before they meet, b. The
two optic nerves conjoined,, c, The right optic nerve.
] d, Mufculus attollens palpebrae fuperioris. e, Attol-
1 lens oculi. f, Abduiftor. g g, Obliquus fuperior, or
I trochlearis. h, Addu&or. i. The eye-ball.
Fig. 4. Shews the eye-ball with its mufclcs.
1 a, The optic nerve, b, Mufcivlus trochlearis. c, Part
I of the os frontis, to which the trochlea or pulley is
I fixed, through which,—d, The tendon of the tro-
j chlearis paffes. e, Attollens oculi. f, Adduftor o-
I culi. g, Abduftor oculi. h, Obliquus inferior.
I 1, Part of the fuperior maxillary bone to which it is
I fixed, k. The eye-ball.
'I ; Yol. I. No. 13. 3
Fig. 5. Reprefents the nerves and mufcles of the right
eye, after part of the bones of the orbit have been
cut away.
A, The eye-ball. B, The lachrymal gland. C, Mufr
cuius abdutfor oculi. D, Attollens. E, Levator
palpebrae fuperioris. F, Depreffor oculi. G, Ad-
du&or. H, Obliquus fuperior, with its pulley. I, Its
infertion into the fclerotic coat. K, Part of’ the
obliquus inferior. L, The anterior part of the oS
frontis cut. M, The cryfta galli of the ethmoid
N, The pofterior part of the fphenoid bone.
O, Tranfverfe fpmous procefs of the fpenoid bone
P, The carotid artery, denuded where it paffes thro*
the bones. Q, The carotid artery within the cranir
um. R, The ocular artery.
Nerves,-—a a, The optic nerve, b, The third
Its joining with a branch of the firft branch
of the fifth pair, to form 1, T'he lenticular ganglion
which fends off the ciliary nerves, d. e e,°The ;
fourth pair, f. The trunk of the fifth pair, g’ The
firft branch of the fifth pair, named ophthalmic.—
h. The frontal branch from it. i. Its ciliary branches
along with which the nafal twig is fent to the nofe!
k, Its branch to the lachrymal gland. 1, The lenti¬
cular ganglion, m. The fecond branch ’of the fifth
pair named fuperior maxillary, n, The third branch
ot the firth pair, named inferior maxillary 0 The
fixth pair of nerves, which fends off p, The beginning
of the great fympathetic. q. The remainder of the
fixth pair, fpent on c, The abdudtor oculi.
Fig. 6. Reprefents the head of a youth, where the
upper part of the cranium is fawed off,—to Ihew the
■ upper part of the brain, covered by the pia mater
the veffels of which are minutely filled with wax. ’
A A, The cut edges of the upper part of the cranium
t 4 I B, T he
gio ( A N A T
B, The two tables and intermediate diploe. B B, The
two hemifpheres of the cerebrum. C C, The inci-
fure made by the falx. D, Part of the tentorium
cerebello fuper elcpanfum. E, Part of the falx,
'which is fixed to the crifta galli.
Fig. 7. Reprefents the parts of the external ear,
with the parotid gland and its du£t.
a a, The helix, b. The anthelix. c, The antitragus,
d. The tragus, e. The lobe of the ear. f, The
cavitas innominata. g, The fcapha. h. The concha,
i i, The parotid gland, k, A lymphatic gland, which
is often found before the tragus. 1, The dudt of the
parotid gland, m. Its opening into the mouth.
Fig. 8. A view of the pofterior part of the external
ear, meatus auditorius, tympanum, with its fmall
bones, and Euftachian tube of the right fide.
a, The back part of the meatus, with the fmall ceru¬
minous glands, h. The incus, c. Malleus, d, The
O M Y. Part. VI.
chorda tympani. e, Membrana tympani. f, The
Euftachian tube, g, Its mouth, from the fauces.
Fig. 9. Reprefents the anterior part of the right ex¬
ternal ear, the cavity of the tympanum—its fmall
bones, cochlea, and femi-circular canals.
a, The malleus, b, Incus with its long leg, refting up¬
on the (tapes, c, Membrana tympani. d, e, The
Euftaehian tube, covered by part of—f f. The muf-
culus circumflexus palati. 1, 2, 3, The three femi-
circular canals. 4, The veftible. 5, The cochlea.
6, The portio mollis of the feventh pair of nerves.
Fig. 10. Shews the mufcles which compofe the flefhy
fubftance of the tongue.
a a. The tip of the tongue, with fome of the papilla
minima, b, The root of the tongue. c, Part of
the membrane of the tongue, which covered the epi¬
glottis. d d. Part of the mufculus hyo-gloffus e, The
lingualis. f, Genio-glolTus. g g, Part of the ftylo-
gloffus.
A N C , A N C
ANATOMY is alfo ufed, in a lefs proper fenfe, for the
analyfing of compound bodies. See Analysis.
Anatomy, in fome old ftatutes, is ufed to denote the
fubjeft to be anatomized.
Anatomy, in a figurative (enfe, is fometimes ufed for
a ftridt examination of an affair, difcourfe, or per¬
formance.
Anatomy of plants. See Agriculture, Parti.
ANATORIA, a fmall city of Greece, upon the river
Afopa, five miles from the ftraits of Negropont.
ANATRON, Natron, or Natrum, in natural hifto-
ry. tee Natrum.
AN AUDI A, a term ufed by fome writers to denote
dumbnefs, or the want of the ufe of fpeech.
ANAXAGORIA, in Grecian hiftory, an anniverfary
feftival, kept, in honour of Anaxagoras, by the people
of Lampfacus.
ANAXIMANDRIANS, in the hiftory of philofophy,
the followers of Anaximander; the moft ancient of
the philofophical atheifts, who admitted of no other
fubftance in nature but matter.
ANAZ 7.0, a town in the province of Barri, in the
kingdom of Naples.
ANBAR, a city of Afia, fituated upon the Euphrates,
twenty leagues from Bagdat. It is called by the na¬
tives Hafcbemiah.
ANBURY, among farriers. See Ambury.
ANCAMARES, a people, of S. America, along the ri¬
ver Madeira, which afterwards falls into the river of
the Amazons.
ANCARANO, a fmall city of tire ecclefiaftical date, in
the marquifate of Ancona.
ANCASTER, a town of Lincolnlhire, near Lincoln,.
W.long. 3.0'. N. lat.. 520 £0'.
ANCENIS, a town of Fiance, in the province of Bri-
tanny, W. long. i° 9'. N. lat. 47° 20.
ANCESTORS, thofe from whom a perfon is defcend-
ed in a ftreight line.
ANCES'l REL, in law, fomething that relates to, or
has been done by one’s anceftors. .
ANCHIALUS, a city of Thrace, upon theEuxine fea,
by the Turks called Kipkis, and by the Greeks Ja¬
ck io.
ANCHILOPS, in medicine, a fmall tumor in the great
angle of - the eye, frequently degenerating into an ab-
cefs or fiftula lachrymalis.
ANCHIO, in geography. See Anchialus.
ANCHOR, in maritime affairs, an extremely ufeful
inftrument, ferving to retain a (hip in its place.
It is a very large and heavy iron inftrument, with
a double hook at one end, and a ring at the other, by
which it is faftened to a cable. It is caft into the bot¬
tom of the fea, or rivers; when, taking its hold, k
keeps (hips from being drawn away by the wind, tide,
or currents.
The parts of an anchor are, 1. The ring to which
the cable is faftened. 2. The beam or (hank, which
is the longeft part of the anchor. 3. The arm, which
is that which runs into the ground. 4. The fiouke
or fluke, by fome called the palm, the broad and
peaked part, with its barbs, like the head of an arrow,
which faftens into the ground. 5. The (lock, a piece
of wood faftened to the beam near the ring, ferving to
guide the fluke, fo that it may fall right and fix in the
ground.
There are feveral kinds of anchors : 1. The (heet-
anchor, which is the largeft, and is never ufed but in
violent ftorms, to hinder the (hip from' being driven
a-fliore-
ANA (3
a-ftiore. 2. The two bowers, which are ufed for
(hips to ride in a harbour. 3. The ftream anchor.
4. The grapnd. See Stream-anchor, «»^Grap-
NEL.
The fhank of an anchor is to be three times the
length of one of its flukes; and a fhip of $00 tons
hath her flieet-anchor of 2000 weight; and fo propor-
tionably for others, fmaller or greater. The anchor
is faid to be a-peak, when the cable is perpendicular
between the hawfe and the anchor. See Hawse.
An anchor is faid to come home, when it cannot
hold the (hip. An anchor is foul, when, by the turn¬
ing of the ftiip, the cable is hitched about the fluke.
To fhoe an anchor, is to fit boards upon the flukes,
that it may hold the better in foft ground. When the
anchor hangs right up and down by the {hip’s fide, it
is faid to, be a cock-bell, upon the {hip’s coming to an
anchor.
The inhabitants of Ceylon ufe large ftones inftead
of anchors; and in fome other places of the Indies,
the anchors are a kind of wooden machines, loaded
with ftones.
Anchor, in archite&ure, a fort of carving, fomething
refembling an anchor. It is commonly placed as part
of the enrichment's of the boultins of capitals of the
Tufcan, Doric, and Ionic orders; and alio of the
the boultins of bed-mouldings of the Do:ic, Ionic,
and Corinthian cornices; anchors and eggs being car¬
ved alternately through the whole building..
Anchor, in heraldry, are emblems of hope, and are
taken for fuch in a fpiritual, as well as a temporal
fenfe.
ANCHORAGE, or Anchoring-ground, a place
■ where a Ihip may caft anchor.
The beft anchoring-ground is ftiff clay or hard
fand ; and the beft place for riding at anchor is, where
a (hip is land-locked, and out of the tide.
Anchorage, in law, is a duty upon {hips for the ufe
• of the port or harbour where they caft anchor.
ANCHORALIS proceffus. See Coracoides.
ANCHORED, or Ankered, is faid of a crofs, the
four extremities of which referable the flukes of an
anchor.
The crofs refembles very much the crcfs-moline ;
the whole difference between them, confiding only in
this, that the anchored crofs is Xomewhat {harper at
the points than the moline. See Mq-li-ne.
ANCHOVY, in ichthyology, the Englifti name of the
clupea encraficolus. See Clupea.
ANCHUSA, or Alkanet, in botany, a genus of the
pentandria monogynia clafs. The corolla is lhaped
like a tunnel. There are eight fpecies of the anchu-
fa; viz. 1. The officinalis, a native of France and
the warmer parts of Europe. The root of the offici¬
nalis is not now ufed in medicine j its principal ufe is
for colouring oils, unguents, plafters, fac. 2. The
angutlifblia, a native of Italy and Germany. 3. The
undulata, a native of Spain. 4. The oriemalis, a
native of theE. Indies. 5. The virginiana, a native
of Virginia. 6. The lanata, a native of Algiers.
7. The tindoria, a native of Montpelier. 8. The.
it ) ANA
fempervirens, or ever-green alkanet, a native of Bri¬
tain and Spain.
ANCHYLOBLEPHARON, among phyficians, denotes
a cohefionof the eye-lids.
ANCIENT. See Antient, and Antiquity.
ANCIENTLY, in fome old ftatutes, a term ufed to de¬
note feniority.
ANCLABRIS, in Roman antiquity, the table whereon
the priefts eat their portion of the facrifices.
ANCLAM, a town of Pomerania in Germany, fituated
on the river Pene, in E. long. 140, and N. lat. 540,
about 45 miles N. W. of Stetin.
ANCLE, in anatomy. See Talus.
ANCOBER, or Rio-cobre, a river on the coaft of
Guinea in Africa
ANCILIA, in antiquity. See Ancyle.
ANCON. See Olecranon.
ANCONA, a fea-port town of Italy, fituated on the
gulph of Venice, in E long. 150, and N. lat. 430 20'.
It is the capital of a marquifate of the fame name,
fubjed to the pope.
ANCONfEUS, in anatomy, one of the mufcles of the
elbow. See Anatomy, p. 197.
ANCONES, in architedure, the corners- or coins of
walls, crofs-beams, or rafters.
ANCONY, in mineralogy, denotes a bloom of iron fa-
ftiioned into a flat bar about three feet long, with a
fquare rough knot at each end.
ANCRE, a town of Picardy in France, upon a river of
the fame name, between Corbie and Bapaame.
ANCRE'E, in heraldry, the fame with anchored. See
Anchored.
ANCUAH, a city of the province of Alovahat, in the
northern parts of Egypt,
ANCUBITUS,' among ancient phyficians, a term to de¬
note that afFedion.of the eyes in which they feemed to
contain fand.
ANCUD, a province of Chili, in S., America, having
on the weft the Archipelago of the fame name; the
Andes on the eaft; the country of Oforno on the
north ; and the country of Magellan on the iouth.
ANCYLE, in antiquity, a kind of ffiield that fell, as
was pretended, from heaven, in the reign of NumaPom-
pilius; at which time, likewife, a voice was heard,
declaring that Rome ftiould be miftrefs of the world as
long as ffie ftiould preferve this holy buckler. It was
kept with great care in the temple of Mars, under the
diredion of twelve priefts; and left any {hould attempt
to ftealit, eleven others were made fo like, as not to
be diftinguiffied from the facred one. Thefe ancylia
were carried in procelEon efery year round the city of
Rome.
Ancyle, in furgery, a diftortion of the joints.
ANCYLOGLOSSUM, among phyficians, denotes a
contradion of the ligaments of the tongue, hindering
fpeech.
ANCYLOMELE, a furgeoMs crooked probe. See
Probe.
ANCYLOSIS, in furgery. See Ancyle.
ANCYROIDES, among anatomifts. See Coracoides.
ANCZAK-
A N D (3
ANCZAICRICH, a river of Podolia, which falls into
the. Black Sea, near Oczakow.
ANDABATiE, in antiquity, a fort of gladiators who,
mounted on horftback or in chariots, fought hood¬
winked, having a helmet that covered their eyes.
ANDALUSIA, the mod fouth-wefl province of Spain,
having Eftremadura and New Caftile on the north;
and Granada, the Straits of Gibraltar, and the At¬
lantic Ocean, on the fouth.
Nenu Andalusia, a province of Terra Firma, lyingon
the coaft of the Atlantic Ocean, oppofite to the Lee¬
ward iflands, having the river Oroonoco on the weft.
ANDAMAN, the name of fome fmall iflands fituated
on the eaft fide of the entrance of the bay of Bengal,
in E. long. 920, andN. lat. iy0.
ANDANAGAR, a town of the peninfula in India, on
this fide the Ganges, in the kingdom of Decan.
ANDANCE, a town of Languedoc in France, fituated
near the confluence of the Rhone and the Dome.
AND ANTI, in mufic, fignifies, efpecially in thorough-
bafles, that the notes are to be played diftinftly.
ANDAYE, a town in France, upon the Spanifli fron¬
tiers, within two leagues of St Jean de Luz.
ANDELI, a town of Normandy in France, fituated up¬
on the Seine, between Paris and Rouen.
ANDENA, in old writers, denotes the fwath made in
mowing of hay, or as much ground as a man could
ftride over at once.
ANDENES, an ifland in the north fea, upon the coaft
of Norway. It is only inhabited by fiftiermen.
ANDERENAS fal, a name fometimes ufed for the na-
trum of the ancients. See Nat rum.
ANDERLECHT, a fortrefs of the Auftrian Nether¬
lands, about two miles fouth of Bruflels.
ANDERNACHT, a city of Germany, fituated on the
Lower Rhine, in E. long. 70, and N. lat. jo° 25', a-
bout 30 miles fouth of Cologne.
ANDERO, a fea-port town of Spain, in the province
of Bifcay, about fixty miles weft of Bilboa, fituated
in W. long. 40 30', and N. lat. 43° 20. Here the
Spaniards build and lay up fome of their men of war.
ANDES, a vaft ridge of mountains which runs almoft
the whole length of S. America. They are efteemed
the higheft in the world, being covered with fnow in
the warmeft climates; and from thence called the Si¬
erras Nivada, or the fno'wy mountains.
ANDEVALLO, a fmall country of Spain, in Andalu-
fia, upon the frontiers of Portugal and Spanilh Eftre-
madtffa.
ANDEUSE, a city of Languedoc in France, fituated
inE. long. 30 4c/, and N. lat. 430 45'.
ANDORINHA, in ornithology, an obfoletename of the
hirunda. See Hirunda.
ANDOVER, a large market-town in Hampfhire, fitu¬
ated about ten miles north-weft of Wincbefter, in
W. long. i° 3c/, and N. lat. 510 2c/. It fends two
members to parliament.
ANDRACHNE, in botany, a genus of the monoecia
gynandria clafs. The calix of the male confifts of
five leaves ; the corolla has five petals; and the ftami-
na, which are alfo five in number, are inferted into
12 ) AN D
the ftylus. The calix of the female is divided into five
leaves; it has no corolla; the ftyli are three; the
capfule is trilocular, containing two feeds. There are
only two fpecies of the andrachne, viz. the telephe-
oides, a native of Italy; and the fruticofa, a native
of China.
ANDREJOS, a town fituated near the Borifthenes, be¬
tween Mufcovy and Poland.
ANDREW, or, Knights of St Andrew, an order of
knights, more ufually called the order of the thiftle.
See Thistle.
Knights of St A n D r e w is alfo an order inftituted by Peter
the Great of Mufcovy in 1698 ; the badge of which is
a golden medal, on one fide whereof is reprefented St
Andrew’s crofs, with thefe words, Cazar Pierre mo-
narque de tout la Rufie. This medal,, being faftened
to a blue ribbon, is fufpended from the right flioulder.
St Andrew’/ crofs, one in form of the letter X. See
Cross.
St Andrew’s-^, a feftival of the Chriftian church,
celebrated on the thirteenth of November, in honour
of the apoftle St Andrew.
St Andrews, in geography, a town in the county of
Fife in Scotland, fituated on the German Ocean, in
W. long. 20 25 , and N. lat. 56° 20/, about 30 miles
N. E. of Edinburgh.
St Andrews'was formerly an archbilhop’s fee, but
at prefent is chiefly remarkable on account of its uni-
verfity.
Ar Andrews is alfo the name of a town of Carinthia in
Germany, fituated in E. long. 15°, and N. lat. 47°«
about a hundred miles fouth of Vienna.
ANDRIA, in Grecian antiquity, public entertainments
firft inftituted by Minos of Crete, and, after his ex¬
ample, appointed by Lycurgus at Sparta, at which a
whole city or a tribe afiifted. They were managed
with the utmoft frugality, and perfons of all ages were
admitted, the younger fort being obliged by the law¬
giver to repair thither, as to fchools of temperance and
fobriety.
Andria, among fome naturalifts, denotes an herma-
phroditical woman. See Hermaphrodite.
Andria, in geography, a town of Italy, in the king¬
dom of Naples, fituated in E. long. 170, and N. lat.
410 (s'. Itjs abilhop’s fee.
ANDROAS, or Androdamas, among ancient natu¬
ralifts, a kind of pyritse, to which they attributed
certain magical virtues.
ANDROGYNOUS, in zoology, an appellation given to
animals which have both the male and female fex in
the fame individual.
Androgynous baths, in antiquity, thofe common to
both fexes. See Bath.
ANDROIDES, in mechanics, a. human figure, which,
by certain fprings, performs feveral external functions
of a man. See Automaton.
ANDROLEPSY, in Grecian antiquity, an adion allow¬
ed by the Athenians againft fuch as prote&ed perfons :
guilty of murder. The relations of the deceafed
were empowered to feize three men in the city or
houfe whither the malefa&or had fled, till he were ]
either >
AND
either furrendered, or fatisfaftion made Tome other way
for the murder.
Androlepsy is fometimes alfo ufed to fignify reprifals.
See Reprisal.
ANDROMACHUS’r treacle. SccTheriaca.
ANDROMEDA, in aftronomy, a northern conftellation,
conlifting of 27 ftars, vifible to the naked eye, behind
Pegafus, Caffiopeia, and Perfeus. See Astro¬
nomy.
Andromeda, in botany, a genus of the decandria mo-
nogynia clafs. The calix is divided into five parts;
the corolk is ovated and quinquifid; and the capfule
has five cells or divifions. There are nine fpecies of
the andromeda, viz. the tetragona, hypnoides, and
cerulea, natives of Lapland and the Alps; the mari-
ana, paniculata, arborea, and calyculata, natives of
Virginia; the polifolia, marlh-ciftus, or wild rofemary,
a native of G. Britain; and the racemofa, a native of
Penfylvania.
ANDRON, in Grecian antiquity, denotes the apart¬
ment in houfes defigned for the ufe of men; in which
fenfe, it ftands oppofed to gynasceum. See Gyna:-
CEUM.
ANDRONION, among ancient phyficians, a name given
to certain troches invented by Andron.
ANDROPHAGI. See Andropophagi.
ANDROPOGON, in botany, a genus of the polygamia
monoecia clafs. This genus contains 18 fpecies, viz.
the caricofum, contortum, divaricatum, nutans, gryl-
lus, infulare, ravennse, alopecuroides, diftachyon,
fchoenanthus, virginicum, bicorne, hirtum, nardus,
muticum, ifchoemum, fafciculatum, and polydadlylon,
moll of them natives of the Indies.
ANDROS, an ifland in the Archipelago, near the fouth
end of Negropont.
ANDROSACE, in botany, a genus of the pentandria
monogynia clafs. The umbella of the androface is
inclofed in an involucrum; the corolla is ovated; and
the capfule is globular, and confifts of one apartment.
There are fix fpecies of this genus; viz. the maxima, a
native ofAuftria; the feptentrionalis, a native of Lap-
• land, Ruflia, and the Alps ; the villofa, a native of the
Pyrenean mountains; the lattea, a native of Aullria ;
the carnea, a native of Switzerland; and the elonga-
ta, a native of Auftria.
ANDROS.T.MUM, in botany, a fynonyme of feveral
fpecies of hypericum. See Hypericum.
ANDROMOTY, or Andranotomy, the difle&ion of
human bodies. See Anatomy.
ANDRUM, a kind of hydrocele, to which the people
of Malabar are very fubjeit. See Hydrocele, and
Medicine.
ANDRYALA, in botany, a genus of the fyngenefia
• polygamia sequalis clafs. The receptacle is villous ;
the calix is divided into many equal round pieces;
and the pappus is fimple and feflile. There are four
fpecies of the andryala, viz. the intregifolia, a native
of France and Sicily; the ragufina, a native of the
Archipelagus ; the finuata, a native of Montpelier
and Sicily; and the lanata, a native of the fouthern
parts of Europe.
Vol. I. No. 14.
A N G
ANDUXAR, a city of Andalufia in Spain, fituated on
the river Guadalquiver, about 32 miles eaft of Cor-
duba, in W. long. 40. and N. lat. 370 jo7.
ANDUZE. SeeANDEusE.
ANEE, in commerce, a meafure for grain, ufed in fome
provinces of France. At Lyons, it fignifies alfo a
certain quantity of wine, which is the load an afs can
carry at once: Which is fixed at 80 Engliih quarts,
wine meafure. •
ANEGADA, one of the Caribbee iflands, fituated in
W. long. 63° S • anc^ N. lat. 180.
ANELE, or Anil, in our old ftatutes, names ufed for
indigo. See Indigo.
ANEMABO. See Annamaboe.
ANEMIUS, among chemifts, an appellation given to a
wind-furnace, ufed in making fire-furnaces for melting
and diftillation.
ANEMOMACHIA, a term ufed by ancient naturalifts
for a whirlwind or hurricane.
ANEMOMETER, among mechanical philofophers, an
inftrument contrived for meafuring the ftrength of the
wind.
ANEMONE, in botany, a genus of the polyandria po-
lygynia clafs. It has no calix; the petals are from
fix to nine, and the feeds are numerous. There are
21 fpecies of anemone, molt of them natives of Europe,
and only the nemorofa and pulfatilla are natives of
Britain.
ANEMOSCOPE, a machine (hewing from what point of
the compafs the wind blows. It denotes alfo an in-
ftrument invented to foretell the changes of the wind.
ANET, a town in the ille of France, upon the river
Eure.
ANETHUM, in botany, a genus of the pentandria
digynia clafs. The fruit is oval, comprefled, and Itri-
ated. There are only two fpecies of anethum ; viz.
the graveolens, & native of Spain; and the feniculum,
fennel, or finckle, a native of Britain. The feeds of
the graveolens are recommended as a carminative. The
bell preparations of them are, the diftilled oil, and a
tindture or extrad): made with redtified fpirit.
ANEURISM, or Aneurysm, in furgery, athrobbing
tumor, diftended with blood, and formed by a dilata¬
tion or rupture of an artery. See Surgery.
ANFA, a city of Africa, in the kingdom of Fez, fitu¬
ated on the fea-coalt, between Rabat and Azamar.
ANGAMALA, a fmall city of India, fituated upon the
river Aicotta, on the Malabar coaft.
ANGARIA, in Roman antiquity, a kind of public fervice
impofed on the provincials, which confided in provi¬
ding horfes and carriages for the conveyance of military
(tores, and other public burdens. It is fometimes alfo
ufed for a guard of.foldiers, ported'for the defence of
a place. In a more general fenfe, it is ufed for any
kind of oppreffion, or fervices performed through com-
pulfion.
ANGASMAGO, a river of S. America. During the
reign of the Incas, it bounded the kingdom of Peru on
the north, as the river Maule did on the fouth. See
Peru.
ANGEIOGRAPHY, or Angeiology, amonganato-
t 4 K mirts,
( B'J )
3
A N G (31
tn'ifts , the defcription and hiftory of the feveral vefTds
of the human body.
ANGEIOGRAPHY, among antiquarians, denotes the
defcription of the various utenfils, weights, meafures,
<kc. of the ancients.
ANGEIOTOMY, in furgery, a term fometimes ufed for
the opening of a vein or artery.
ANGEL, a name given to thofe fpiritual intelligent be¬
ings, who are fuppofed to executt the will of God, in
the government of the world.
The exiftence of angels has been admitted in all re¬
ligions, The Greeks and Latins acknowledged them
under the name of genii or demons ; and, in the alco-
ran, we find frequent mention of them, the Maho¬
metans afiigning them different orders and degrees,
and different employments, both in heaven and earth.
An get, is likewife a title given to bifhops of feveral
churches. In this fenfe is St Paul underftood by fome'
authors, where he fays, Wc?nsn ought to he covered in
the church, becaufe of the angfds; and thus, in the
Revelation, The /even ftars are the angels, that is,
bifhops, of the feven churches.
Angel, in commerce, the name of an ancient gold coin
in England, of which fome are ftill to be feen in the
cabinets of the curious. It had its name from the fi¬
gure of an angel reprefented upon it. It was ca¬
rats, and weighed four penny-weights. Its value dif¬
fered in different reigns.
ANGEL-FISH, in ichthyology. See Squalus.
ANGELIC, or Angelical, an epithet given to what¬
ever belongs to, or partakes of the nature of angels.
• See Angel,.
Angelic Art. See Art.
Angelic a/^//. See Habit.
ANGELICA, in botany, a genus of the pentandria di-
. gynia clafs. The fruit of the angelica is roundifh,
with three furrows on each fide; the corolla is equal,
and the petals turned inward at the top. There are
four fpecies of angelica, viz. the archangelica, a na¬
tive of Lapland ; the fylveftris, a native of Britain;
the purpurea, and the lucida, both natives of Canada.
All the parts of the archangelica, but particularly the
roots, are aromatic, and ufed in feveral alexeterial waters.
Angelica, in Grecian antiquity, a celebrated dance,
performed at their feafts, fo called, becaufe the dan¬
cers were dreffed in the habit of mefiengers.
ANGELICS, in church-hiftory, an ancient fe<5t of he¬
retics, fuppofed by fome to have got this appellation
from their excefiive veneration of angels; and by o-
thers, from their maintaining that the world was cre¬
ated by angels.
As gel ics is alfo the name of an order of knights, infti-
tuted in 119T, by Angelas Flavius Comnenus empe¬
ror of Conflantinople.
Angelics is alfo a congregation of nuns, founded at
Milan in 1534, by Louifa Torelli, countefs of Gua^
ftalla. They obferve the rule of St Augu/Hne.
ANGELITES, in church-hiftory, an ancient feft of
heretics, whofe diftinguilhing tenent was, That the
Trinity have no diftind fubftance, but partake in com¬
mon of the fame divine eftence.
4 )• A N G
ANGELO, or St Angelo, a fea-port town of Apu-
glia in Naples, fituated on the gulf of Venice, in 160
25' E. long, and 410 20' N. lat. It is alfo the name
of two other fmall towns in Italy, one fituated in the
kingdom of Naples, and the other in the province of
Urbino.
ANGELOLATRIA, among ecclefiaftical writers, the
adoration or worlhip of angels.
ANGELOS, a fine city of Mexico, fituated in 103°
W. long, and 190 N. lat. about 75 miles fouth eaft
of the city of Mexico.
ANGELOT, a gold coin ftruck at Paris, while fubjeft
to the Englilh ; fo called from the reprefentation of an
angel fupporting the arms of England and France.
ANGELUS. See Angel
ANGER, a violent defire to be avenged for fome fup¬
pofed injury. See Morals.
ANGERBURG, a city of Pruflia, in the province of
Bartenland, upon the river Angerap.
ANGERMANNIA, a maritime province of Sweden, ly¬
ing on the weftern fhore of the Bothnia gulph.
ANGERMUND, a town of the dutchy of Berg in Ger¬
many, fituated on the eaft fide of the Rhine, in 6° 20/
E. long, and 510 ic/ N. lat. It lies about nine miles
north of Dulfeldorp, and is fubjeft to the eledtor
Palatine.
ANGERONALIA, in antiquity, feafts celebrated at
Rome in honour of Angerona, the gcddefs of filence
and patience. They were inftituted, according to
Macrobius, in confequence of a vow, when the peo¬
ple were afflifted with the quinzy. They were held
on the 2 ift of December.
ANGERS, a large city of France, capital of the pro¬
vince of Anjou, and fituated on the river Loire, in
30' W. long, and 470 ^0' N. lat. It is a biftiop’s
fee, and has a royal academy for the ftudy of the law
• chiefly.
ANGHIERA, a town of the Milanefe in Italy, fitua¬
ted on the eaft fide of the Laco Maggiore, about 40
miles weft of Milan, in o° E. long, and 450 40'
N. lat.
ANGINA, in medicine, a violent inflamation of the
throat, otherwife called quinzy. See Medicine.
ANGIOSPERMIA, in the Linnsan fyftem of botany,
denotes thofe plants of the didynamia clafs, which have
their feeds inclofed in capfules, or feed-veffels. See
Didynamia, and Botany.
ANGLE, in geometry, the inclination of two lines .
meeting one another in a point, and called the legs
of the angle. See Geometry.
Spherical Angle, that formed by the interfedtion of two
great circles of the fphere. See Trigonometry.
Angles of the eye, in anatomy, the fame with the cor--
ners of the eye, called by anatomifts canthi.
ANGLER, a perfon who pradtifes the art of angling,
ANGLESEY, an ifland on the coaft of N. Wales, which
fends one member to parliament.
ANGLICANUS Sudor, among phyficians. See Sudor.
ANGLICISM, in ftyle, a manner of fpeech peculiar to
the Englilh language.
ANGLING, among fportfmen, the art of filhing with
A N G ( V5 ) A N G
a rod, to which are fitted a line, hook, and bait.—
For the feveral methods of angling for falmon, trout,
carp, tench, pearch, flounder, &c. See Salmcn-
FISHING, TVua/'FlSHING, &C.
ANGLO-CALVINISTS, a name given by Tome wri¬
ters to the members of the church of England, as a-
greeing with the other Calvinifts in molt points, ex¬
cept church-government.
ANGLO-SAXON, an apellation given to the language
fpoken by the Englilh Saxons, in contradiltindtion
from the true Saxon, as well as from the modern
Englilh.
ANGOL, a city of Chili in S. America, fituated in
78° W. long, and 38° S. lat.
ANGOLA, a large maritime country on the fouth-weflr
fide of Africa, lying between io° and 150 E. long,
and 50 and 160 S. lat.
The Portuguefe have feveral colonies and confider-
able fettlements on this coaft, which does not hinder
the other nations of Europe from driving a traffic in
Haves with the natives, who are all negroes.
ANGOLA-feeds. See Molucca.
ANGON, in the ancient military art, a kind of javelin
ufed by the French. They darted it at a donfiderable
diftance. The iron head of this weapon refembled a
flower-de-luce. It is the opinion of fome writers, that
the arms of France are not flowers-de-luce, but the i-
ron point of the angon, or javelin of the ancient French.
ANGONiEUS, in anatomy,: a name fometimes given to
the mufcle called anconxus. See page 197.
ANGOR, among ancient phyficians, a concentration of
the natural heat, the confequence of which is a pain
of the head, palpitation, and fadnefs.
ANGOULESME, a city of France, fituated about 64
miles fouth-eaft of Rochelle, in 10' E. long, and 450
4c/N.-lat. It is the capital of Angoumois. Seethe
next article.
ANGOUMOIS, a province of France, bounded by
‘Poiiftou on the north, by Limofin on the ealt, byPe-
rigord on the fouth, and by Santoin on the weft.
ANGOURA, formerly Ancyra, a large populous city of
Natolia, in Afiatic Turkey, fituated on the river Me-
lus; E. long. 330. N. lat. 41° 5'.
ANGRA, the principal town of the illand of Tercera,
one of the Azores. See Azores.
ANGROGNA, a town of Piedmont, fituated about fe-
ven miles weft of Pignerol; E. long. 70. N. lat.
44° 45'-
ANGUIAN, orENGUiEN, a fmall town of the Ne¬
therlands, between Bruflels and Mons.
ANGUILLA, in zoology, a fynonime of the nereis a-
I cuftris, an infedt belonging to the order of vermes mol-
lufca. See Nereis. It is alfo the trivial name of a
fpecies of muraena or eel. See Mura;na.
!i Anguilla, in geography, one of the Caribbee iflands,
I fubjeft to G. Britain, and fituated in W. long. 63°.
and N. lat. 180 1 .
I ANGUILLARA, a town in the territory of Padua, be-
| l°ng>ng to the ftate of Venice.
Anguillara, is alfo a town of St Peter’s patrimony,
about 18 miles from Rome.
ANGUILLIFORM, an appellation given by zoologifts,.
not only to the different fpecies of eels, but to other
animals refembling them in ftiape.
ANGUINA, in botany, a fynonime of the trichofan-
thes. See Trichosanthes.
ANGUINEAL, denotes fomething belonging to, or re¬
fembling a fnake, anguis.
ANGUINUM ovum, among ancient naturalifts, a fabu¬
lous kind of egg, faid to be produced by the faliva of
a clufter of ferpents, and poflefled of certain magical
virtues.
ANGUIS, or Snake, in zoology, a genus belonging to
the order of amphibia ferpentes. The charadters of
the anguis are thefe: They are fquamous or fcally in
the belly and under the tail. There are 16 fpecies of
the anguis; viz. r. The quadrupes : The body of
this fpecies is cylindrical, with 14 or 13 longitudinal
afh-coloured fireaks; the teeth are extremely fmall; it
has no ears ; the feet are at a great diftance from each
other, very fhort, with five toes and fmall nails; but the
toes are fo minute that they can hardly be numbered:
It is a native of Java. 3. The bipes, is a native of
the Indies; it has 100 fcuta on the belly, and 60 on
the tail; the fcuta are fuccedanea for feet, ranged on
both fides; it has two fhort feet, with two toes, near
the anus. In every fcale of the bipes there is a brown
point. 3. The meleagris, is likewife a native of the
Indies, and has 165 fcuta on the belly, and 32 on the
tail: It has fmall teeth, but no ears. This fpecies has a
great refemblance to the former. See Plate XXII. fig. 1.
4. The colubrina, is an inhabitant of Egypt, has iSO'
fcuta on the belly, and 18 on the tail; it is beautifully
variegated with pal^ and yellowifh colours. 5. The
jaculus, a native ofEgypt, has i86 fcuta on the belly,
and 23 on the tail; the fcales on the belly are bread.
6. The maculata, a native of America, has 200 fcuta
on the belly, and 12 on the tail; it is yellow, and in-
terfperfed with afh-coloured lines on the back: The
head is fmall in proportion to the body. See Plate
XXII. fig. 2. 7. The reticulata, a native of Ame¬
rica, has- 177 fcuta on the belly, and 37 on the tail;
the colour of the fcales is brownifli, with a white
margin. 8. The ceraftes, with 200 fcuta on the.
belly, and 13 on the tail, is a native ofEgypt. 9. The
lumbricalis, a native of America* has 230 fcuta on
the belly, and 7 on the tail; its colour is a yellowifh.
white. 10. The ventralis, a native of Carolina, has
127 fcuta on the belly, and 222 on the tail; 11. The
platura; the head is oblong and without teeth; the
body is about a foot and a half long, black above and
white below; the tail is about one ninth of the length
of the animal, much comprefled or flatted, and varie*.
gated with black and white; the fcales are roundifh,
final], not imbricated, but they cannot be numbered..
12. The laticanda, a native of Surinam, has 200 fcuta.
on the belly, and 50 on the tail; the tail is compref-
fed, acute, pale, with brownifli belts. 13. The fey-
tale, a native of the Indies, with 240 fcuta on the
belly,.and 13 on the tail. The head is fmall and o-
val, and the eyes are little; the body is cylindrical^,
about a foot and a half long, covered with oval ob-
titfie.
A N I ( 3i<* )
tufe fcales: The tail is thick and obtufe like the head ; AMIMA,
its colour is white, interfperfed with brownim rings;
the margins of the fcales are of an iron-colour;
and the top of the head is blue. See Plate XXII.
fig. 3. 14. The eryx, a native of Britain and like-
wife of America, has 126 fcuta on the belly, and 136
on the tail. It is of an alh colour above, with three
black lines interfperfed, and blueilh below: It is a-
bout a fpan in length, and about the thicknefs of a
man’s finger. 15. The fragilis, a native of Europe,
has 135 fcuta on the belly, and 135 on the tail.
16. The ventralis, a native of Carolina, has 127 fcuta
on the belly, and 223 on the tail. It is of a greenifli
afh-colour, and its tail is about thrice as long as its
body. According to Linnaeus, none of this genus are
poifonous.
ANGULAR, in a general fenfe, denotes fomething re¬
lating to, or that hath angles. See Angles.
ANGULARIS fcapula, the name by which fome ana-
tomifts call the levator fcapulse. See Anatomy,
page 194.
ANGURIA, in botany, a genus of the moncecia dian-
dria clafs. There are only three fpecies of the angu-
ria, viz. the trilobata, pedata, and trifoliata, all na¬
tives of America.
ANGUS, a ftiire or county of Scotland, bounded on
the north by the (hire of Merns, on the eaft by the
German ocean, on the fouth by the frith of Tay,
which divides it from the ftiire of Fife, and on the
weft by the ftiire of Perth.
This county, which for the moft part is exceeding
fertile, is otherwife called Forfarftiire, from its capital
Forfar.
ANGUSTICLAVIA, in Roman antiquity, a tunica
embroidered with little purple ftuds. It was worn by
the Roman knights, as the laticlavia was by the fe-
nators.
ANHALT, a province of the circle of Upper Saxony,
in Germany, lying fouthward of the duchy of Mag¬
deburg.
ANHELATIO, or Anhelitus, among phyficians, a
ftiortnefs of breath.
ANHINGA, in ornithology, the trivial name of a fpecies
of plotus. See Plotus.
ANHYDROS, in botany, an obfolete name of the fola-
num. See Solanum.
ANI, in ornithology, the trivial name of a fpecies of
crotophaga. See Crotophaga.
ANIAN, a large maritime country on the eaftern coaft
of Africa, lying between the equator, and 120 N. lat.
and between 40° and yo° E. long.
Anian is alfo the name of a ftrait, fuppofed to lie be¬
tween the north-eaft of Afia and north-weft of A-
merica.
ANJENGO, a fmall town and fadlory on the Malabar
coaft, belonging to our Eaft-India company.
ANIENS, or Aniente, a law-term, fignifying to be
void, or of no force.
ANIL, in botany, a fynonyme of a fpecies of indigofera.
See Indigoeera.
ANI
among divines and naturalifts, denotes the
foul, or principle of life, in animals.
An ima, among chemifts, denotes the volatile or fpiri-
tous parts of bodies.
Anima hepatis, is a name by which fome call fal martis,
or fait of iron, on account of its fuppofed efficacy in
difeafes of the liver.
Anima faturni, a white powder obtained by pouring di-
ftilled vinegar on litharge, of confiderable ufe in ena¬
melling. See Enamel.
Anima, or Animato, in mufic, the fame with allegro.
See Allegro.
ANIMACHA, a river of India, in the kingdom of Ma¬
labar. It rifes in the kingdom of Calicut, and falls
into the ocean fix leagues from Cranganor. It is alfo
the name of a town upon the river.
ANIMADVERSION, in matters of literature, is ufed
to fignify, fometimes corredtion, fometimes remarks
upon a book, (sc. and fometimes a ferious confidera-
tion upon any point.
ANIMAL, in natural hiftory, an organized body en¬
dowed with fenfation: Thus, minerals are faid to grow
or increafe ; plants to grow and live; but animals a-
lone to have fenfation. See Natural History.
ANIMALS, in heraldry, are much ufed, both as bear¬
ings and fupporters. See Heraldry.
Animal, ufed adje&ively, denotes any thing belong¬
ing to, or partaking of the nature of animals. Thus,
animal adtions, thofe that are peculiar to animals ;
fuch are fenfation and mufcular motion.
Animal fpirits. See Nervous fluid.
Animal fyjiem denotes the whole clafs of beings en-
dowed with animal life, otherwife called animal king-
do?n.
ANIMALCULE, an animal fo minute in its fize, as
not to be the immediate objedt of our fenfes. See Mi -
CROSCOPE.
ANIMATED, or Animate, in a general fenfe, de¬
notes fomething endowed with animal life. It alfo
imports a thing to be impregnated with vermin or ani¬
malcules.
ANIME, in heraldry, a term ufed when the eyes of a-
ny rapacious creature are born of a different tindture
from the creature itfelf.
ANIMETTA, among ecclefiaftical writers, denotes the
cloth wherewith the cup of the eucharift is covered. . '
ANIMI diliquium, fainting or fwooning.
ANINGA, in commerce, a root which grows in the An¬
tilles iflands, and is pretty much like the China plant.
It is ufed by fugar-bakers, for refining the fugar ; and
is more effedtual, and lefs dangerous, than the fubli-
mate of mercury and arfenic.
ANJOU, a country, or rather earldom of France, bound¬
ed by the province of Maine on the north, by Tourain
on the eaft, by Poidtou on the fouth, and by Britany
on the weft.
ANISCALPTOR, in anatomy, a name by which fome ‘
call the latifiimus dorfi. See page 19J.
ANITERSOR, in anatomy, another name by which
fome call the latiffimus dorfi.
ANKER, ,
ANN (3
ANKER, a liquid raeafure at Amfterdam. It contains
about 32 gallons Englifli meafure.
ANN, or Annat, in Scots law, is half a year’s ftipend,
which the law gives to the executors of minifters of
the church of Scotland, over and above what was due
to the minifter himfelf, for his incumbency. See Scots
Law, title, Ecclejiaftieal fer/tns.
ANNA, in Roman antiquity, an appellation given to the
moon. See the article Moon.
Anna, in geography, a city of Arabia Petrea, fituated
on the vveftern Ihore of the river Euphrates, in 41^ 35/
of E. long, and 330 30' N. lat.
ANNAACIOUS, a people of Brafil, in America, whofe
. country, borders on the government of Porto Seguro.
ANNABERG, a fmall town of Germany, in the pro¬
vince of Mifnia, (ituated near the river Schop, about
. 11 German miles from Leipfic.
ANNAGH, the name of two towns in Ireland, one in
the province of Ulfler, and the other in the county of
Downe.
ANNALE, in the church of Rome, a term applied to
the mafl'es celebrated for the dead during a whole
year.
ANNALS, in matters of literature, a fpecies of hi-
ftory, which relates events in the chronological or¬
der wherein they happened. They differ from per-
fedt hiflory in this, that annals are 4 bare relation
of what happened every year, as a journal is of what
paffes every day; whereas hiftory relates, not only
the tranfadions themfelves, but alfo the caufes, mo¬
tives, and fprings of adions,
ANNALES, in law. See Yearlings.
ANNAMABOE, an Englilh fadory on the gold coaft,
in Gqinea, in Africa.
ANNAN, the capital of the (hire of Annandale, in
Scotland, fituated upon a river of the fame name, in
30 W. long, and 540 40' N. lat.
ANNAPOLIS, the capital, of Maryland, a Britilh co¬
lony .in N. America, in 78° W. long, and 390 25
N. lat.
ANNAPOLIS, is.alfb the name of the capital of Nova
Scotia, fituated in 64° W. long, and 45° N. lat.
ANNATES, among ecclefiaftical writers, a year’s in-
• come of a fpiritual living.
Thefe were, in ancient times, given to the pope
through all Chriftendom, upon the deceafe of any bi-
fhop, abbot, or pariih-clerk, and were paid by his fuc-
; ceffor. At the reformation they were taken from the
, pope, and veiled in the king; and finally, queen Ann
reflored them to the church, by appropriating them to
the augmentation of >poor livings.
ANNEALING, or Nealing, the burning or baking
glafs, earthen ware, in an oven or furnace. See
Nealing.
ANNE, or Sr AnneW^, a feflival of the Chriflian
church, celebrated by the Latins on the twenty-fixth
of July, but by the Greeks on the ninth of December.
It is kept in honour of Anne, or Anna, mother of the
Virgin Mary.
Vol. I. No. 14. 3
17 ) ANN
ANNECY, a town of the duchy of Savoy, fituated up¬
on a lake of the fame name, fubjed to the king of
Sardinia, in 6° 10' E. long, and 46° N. lat.
ANNEXATION; in law, a term ufed to imply the u-
niting of lands or rents to the crown.
ANNI nubiles, in law, denotes the marriageable age of
a woman, viz. after fhe has arrived at twelve.
ANNIENTED, in law, fignifies annulled or made void.
ANNIHILATION, the ad of reducing any created be¬
ing- into nothing.
ANNIVERSARY, the annual return of any remarkable
day, Anniverfary days, in old times more particular-:
ly,‘ denoted thofe days in which an office was perform¬
ed for the fouls of the deceafed, or the martyrdona of
the faints was celebrated in the church.
ANNOBON, an ifland of Africa, on the coafl of Gui¬
nea, in 70 E.long. and i° 50' S.lat.
ANNO Domini, i. e. the year of our Lord, the com¬
putation of time from* our Saviour’s incarnation.
ANNOISANCE, in law, the fame with nufance. See
Nusance.
ANNOMINATION, in rhetoric, the fame with what
is otherwife calledparono?nafia. See Paronomasia.
ANNONA, in Romail antiquity, denotes provifion for
a year of all forts, as of fiefli, wine, <bc. but e-.
fpecially of corn. Annona is likewife. the allowance
of oil, fait, bread, flefh, corn, wine, hay, and liraw,
which was annually provided by the contradors for the
maintenance of an army.
ANNONfE prafettus, in antiquity, an extraordinary
magifirate, whofe bufinefs it was to prevent a fcarcity
of provifion, and to regulate the weight and finenefs
of bread.
ANNONAY, a town of France in the upper Vivares,
fituated on the river Deume, in j° 22 E.long. and
450 15' N. lat.
ANNOT, a fmall city in the mountains of Provence in
. France, in 70 E. long, and 440 4' N. lat.
ANNOTATION, in matters of literature, a brief com¬
mentary, or remark upon a book or writing, in order
to clear up fome pafiage, or draw fome conclufion
from it.
ANNUA penfione, in law, an old writ for granting an
annual penfion to one of the king’s chaplains.
ANNUAL, in a general fenfe, an appellation given to
whatever returns every year, or is always performed
within that fpace of .time : Thus we fay. The annual
motion of the earth, annual plants, <bc.
ANNUALRENT, in Scots law, an yearly profit due
by a debtor ia.a fum of money to a creditor for the ufe
of it. See Scots Law, title. Obligations arj/tngfrom
confent.
Right of Annualrent, in Scots law, the original me¬
thod of burdening lands with an yearly payment for
the loan of money, before the taking of intereft for
money was -allowed by ftatute. See Scots Law,
title, Heretable and moveable rights.
ANNUENTES mufculi, in anatomy, the fame with
. redi interni minores. See Anatomy, Part II.
f 4 L ANNUITIES.
( 3>8 )
A N N U I
TIES.
AN Annuity is a fum of money,-payable yearly, half-
yearly, or quarterly, to continue a certain number
of years, for ever, or for life.
An annuity is faid to be in arrear, when it continues
unpaid after it falls due. And an annuity is faid to be
in reverfion, when the purchafer, upon paying the price,
does not immediately enter upon poffdlion; the annuity
not commencing till fome time after.
Intereft on annuities may be computed either in the
way of Ample or compound intereft. But compound
intereft, being found moft equitable, both for buyer and
feller, the computation by fimple intereft is univerfally
difufed.
I. Annuities for a certain Time.
Problem i. Annuity, rate, and time, given, to find
the amount, or fum of yearly payments, and intereft.
Rule. Make i the firft term of a geometrical feries,
and the amount of il. for a year the common ratio;
continue this feries to as many terms as there are years
in the queftion; and the fum of this feries is the amount
of 11. annuity for the given years; which, multiplied by
the given annuity, will produce the amount fought.
Example. An annuity of 40I. payable yearly, is
forborn and unpaid till the end of 5 years: What will
then be due, reckoning compound intereft at 5 per cent.
on all the payments then in arrear ?
123 4 5
1 : 1.05 : 1.1025 : 1-157625 : 1.21550625 ; whofe
fum is 5.525631251. ; and 5.52563125 X 40 =
221.02525=221!. os. 6d. the amount fought.
The amount may alfo be found thus: Multiply the gi¬
ven annuity by the amount of 1 1. for a year; to the
product add the given annuity, and the fum is the amount
in 2 years; which multiply by the amount of 1 1. for a
year; to the produdt add the given annuity, and the fum
is the amount in 3 years, <bc. The former queftion
Wrought in this manner follows.
40 am. in 1 year. 126.1 am. in 3 years.
1.05 1.05
42.00 132.405
40 40
82 am. in 2 years, 172.405 am.in4years.
1.05 1.05
86.10 181.02525
40 40
126 i am. in 3 years. 221.02525 am.in yyears.
If the given time be years and quarters, find the a-
mount for the whole years, as above ; then find the a-
mount of 11. for the given quarters; by which multiply
the amount for the whole years; and to the product add
fuch a part of the annuity as the given quarters are of a
year.
If the given annuity be payable half-yearly, or quar¬
terly, find the amount of 11. for half a year or a quar¬
ter ; by which find the amount for the feveral half-years
or quarters, in the fame manner as the amount for the
feveral years is found above.
Prob. 2. Annuity, rate, and time given, to find the
prefent worth, or fum of money that will purchafe the
annuity.
Rule. Find the amount of the given annuity by the
former problem; and then, by compound intereft, find
the prefent worth of this amount, as a fum due at the end
of the given time.
Examp. What is the prefent worth of an annuity of
401. to continue 5 years, difcounting at 5 per cent, com¬
pound intereft ?
By the former problem, the amount of the given an¬
nuity for 5 years, at 5 per cent, is 221.02525 ; and by
compound intereft, the amount of 11. for five years, at
5I. per cent, is 1.2762815625
And, 1.2762815625)221.02525000(173.179 =
173 1. 3s. yd. the prefent worth fought.
The prefent worth may alfo be found thus: By com¬
pound intereft, find the prefent worth of each year by it-
felf, and the fum of thefe is the prefent worth fought.
The former example done in this way follows.
1.2762815625)40.000000000(31.3410
1.21550625)40.0000000 (32.9080
1.157625)40-00000 (34-553*
1.1025)40.000 (36.2811
1.05)40.0 (38.0952
Prefent worth, 173.1788
If the annuity to be purchafed be in reverfion, find
firft the prefent worth of the annuity, as commencing im¬
mediately, by any of the methods taught above; and
then, by compound intereft, find the prefent worth of
that prefent worth, rebating for the time in reverfion;
and this laft prefent worth is the anfwer.
Examp. What is the prefent worth of a yearly
penfion or rent of 751. to continue 4 years, but not to
commence till 3 years hence, difcounting at 5 percent.?
.05 : 1 :: 75 : 1500
1.05 X 1.05 X 1.05 X 1.05 = 1.21550625
1.21550625)1500.00000( 1234.05 3 71
1500
1234.05371
265.94629, prefent worth of the annuity, if it
was to commence immediately.
1.05X1.05X1.05 = 1.157625 L. s. d
1.157625)265.94629(229.7344 = 229 14 8|
Prob. 3. Prefent worth, rate and time given, to
find the annuity.
Rule.
A N N U I
Rule. By the preceding problem, find the prefent
worth of 11. annuity for the rate and time given ; and
then fay. As the prefent worth thus found to 11. annu¬
ity, fo the prefent worth given to its annuity; that is,
divide the given prefent worth by that of i 1. annuity.
Examp. What annuity, to continue 5 years, will
*73 3 s* 7* purchafe, allowing compound intereft at
5 per cent.
.05 : 1 :: 1 : 20I.
1.05 X x.05 X i.oy X 1.0$ X 1.05 = 1.2762815625
1-2762815625)20.000000000(15.6705.
20
15.6705
4.3295 prefent worth of 11. annuity.
4.329)173.179(40!. annuity. Anf.
II. Annuities for ever, or freehold EJlates.
In freehold eflates, commonly called annuities in fee-
fnnple, the things chiefly to be confldered are, 1. The
annuity or yearly rent. 2. The price or prefent worth.
3. The rate of intereft. The queftions that ufually oc¬
cur on this head will fall under one or other of the follow¬
ing problems.
Prob. 1. Annuity and rate of intereft given, to find
the price.
As the rate of 11. to 11. fo the rent to the price.
Examp. The yearly rent of a fmall eftate is 40 1.:
What is it worth in ready money, computing intereft at
3t per cent.
L. s. d.
As .035 : 1 :: 40 : 1142.857x42 = 1142 17 1-^
Prob. 2. Price and rate of intereft given, to find
the rent or annuity.
As 11. to its rate, fo the price to the rent.
Examp. A gentleman purchafes an eftate for 40001.
and has 4^ per cent, for his money: Required the rent.
As 1 : .045 :: 4000 : 1801. rent fought.
Prob. 3. Price and rent given, to find the rate of
intereft.
As the price to the rent, fo 1 to the rate.
Examp. An eftate of 180I. yearly rent is bought
for 40001.: What rate of interefl has the purchafer for
his money ?
As 4000 : 180 :: 1 : .045 rate fought.
Prob.- 4. The rate of interefl given, to find how
many years purchafe an eflate is worth.
Divide 1 by the rate, and the quot is the number of
years purchafe the eftate is worth.
Examp. A gentleman is willing to purchafe an e-
flate, provided he can have 24- per cent, for bis money:
How many years purchafe may he offer i
.025)1.000(40 years purchafe. Anf.
Prob. 5. The number of years purchafe at which an
eftate is bought or fold, given, to find the rate of interefl.
Divide 1 by the number of years purchafe, and the
I quot is the rate of interefl.
Examp. A gentleman gives 40 years purchafe for an
! eftate ; What intereft has he for his money ?
4o)x.ooo(.025 rate fought.
T I E S. 319
The computations hitherto are all performed by a An¬
gle divifion or multiplication, and it will fcarcely be per¬
ceived that the operations are conduced by the rules of
compound intereft ; but when a reverfion occurs, recourfe
muft be had to tables of annuities on compound intereft.
Prob. 6. The rate of intereft, and the rent of a
freehold eftate in reverfion, given, to find the prefent
worth or value of the reverfion.
By Prob. 1. find the price or prefent worth of the
eftate, as if pofleflion was to commence prefently; and
then, by the Tables, find the prefent value of the given
annuity, or rent, for the years prior to the commence¬
ment ; fubtratt this value from the former value, and the
remainder is the value of the reverfion.
Examp. A has the poffeflion of an eftate of 130 1.
per annum, to continue 20 years ; B has the reverfion of
the fame eftate from that time for ever : What is the va¬
lue of the eftate, what the value of the 20 years poflef-
fion, and what the value of the reverfion, reckoning
compound intereft at 6 per cent.
By Prob. 1. .06)130.00(2166.^666 value of the eftate.
By Tables i49i.o896val.ofthepofleflion.
6 7 5.5 7 70 val. of the reverfion.
Prob. 7. The price or value of a reverfion, the time
prior to the commencement, and rate of intereft, given,
to find the annuity or rent.
By the Tables, find the amount of the price of the re¬
verfion for the years prior to the commencement; and
then, by Prob. 2. find the annuity which that amount
will purchafe.
Examp. The reverfion of a freehold eftate, to com¬
mence 20 years hence, is bought for 675.577I. com¬
pound intereft being allowed at 6 per cent.: Required
the annuity or rent.
By the Tables the amountof675.5771. ? (t
for 20 years, at 6 per cent, is 3 ~ ^
ByProb. 2. 2166.0X .06= 130.0 rent fought.
III. Life Annuities.
The value of annuities for life is determined from ob-
fervations made on the bills of mortality. Dr Halley,
Mr Simpfon, and Monf. de Moivre, are gentlemen of
diftinguifhed merit in calculations of this kind.
Dr Halley had recourfe to the bills of mortality at
Breflaw, the capital of Silefia, as a proper ftandard for
the ether parts of Europe, being a place pretty central,
at a diflance from the fea, and not much crowded with
traffickers or foreigners. He pitches upon 1000 per-
fons all born in one year, and obferves how many of
thefe were alive every year, from their birth to the ex-
tinftion of the laft, and confequently how many died
each year, as in the firft of the following tables; which
is well adapted to Europe in general. But in the city
of London, there is obferved to be a greater difparity in
the births and burials than in any other place, owing pro¬
bably to the vaft refort of people thither, in the way of
commerce, from all parts of the known world. Mr
Simpfon, therefore, in order to have a table particularly
fuited
320 A W U
fuited to this- populous city, pitches upon .1280' perfbns
all born in the fame year, and .records the number re¬
maining alive each year, till none were in lifew
Dr Halley’s table on the bills of mortality at Breilaw.
I T I E S.
It may not be improper in this.place to obferve, that
however perfect tables of this fort may be in themfelves,!
and however well adapted to.any particular climate, yet;
the conclufions deduced from them muft always be un-;
certain, being nothing more than probabilities, or- con*;
je&ures drawn from the ufual period of human life.!
And the praftice of buying and felling annuities on lives,1
by rules founded on fuch principles, maybe juitly conli-;
dered as a fort of lottery or chance-work, in which the|
parties concerned mult often be deceived. But as efti-
mates and-computations of this kind are now become fa-j
(hionable, we lhall here give fome brief account of fuchj
as appear molt material.
From the above tables the probability of the conti-,
nuance or extinftion of human life is eltiniated as fol-j
lows. . .
1. The probability that a perfon of a given age lit all
live a .certain number of years, is meafured by the pro-1
portion which the number of perfons living at the pro-1
pofed age has to the difference between the faid number!
and the number of perfons living at the given age. {
Thus, if it be demanded, v/hat Chance a perfon ofll
40 years has to live feven years longer ? from 445, the!
number of perfons living at 40 years of age in Dr Hal-i
ley’s table, fubtra<fl 377, the number of perfons lmng!«
at 47 years of age; -and the remainder 68, is the num-v
her of perfons that died during thefe 7 years ; and thc|
probability or chance that the perfon in the queltionl
fhall live thefe 7 years is as 377 to 68, or nearly as 54J
to 1. But, by Mr Simpfon’s table, the chance is fome-1
thing lefs than that of 4 to i. i
2* If the year to which a perfon of a given age has t
an equal- chance of arriving before he dies, be required,,i
it may be found thus : Find half the number of perfons j
living at the given age in the tables, and in the columtrl
of age you have the year required.
Thus, if the queftion be put with refpefl to a perfon p
of 30 years of age, the number of that age in Dr Hal l!
ley’s table is 531, the half whereof is 265, which is|
found in the table between 57 and 58 years ; fo that aj
perfon of 30 years has an equal chance of living between *
27. and 28 years longer.
3. By the tables, the premium of infurance upon lives!!'
may in fome meafure be regulated.
Thus, The chance that a perfon of 25 years has tw:
live another year, is, by Dr Halley’s table, as 80 to 1
■but the chance that a perfon of 50 years has to live a:
year longer is only 30 to 1. And, confequently, theif
premium for infuring the former ought to be to the pre-l
mium for infuring the latter for one year, as 30 to 80,c
or as 3 to 8.
Pros. I. To find the value of an annuity of 11. for#
the life of a fingle perfon of any given age.
Monf. de Moivre, by obferving the decreafe of thep
probabilities of life, as exhibited in the table, compofedjt
an algebraic theorem or canon, for computing the valueji)
of an annuity for life; which canon I fllall here lay downs/
by way of
Rule. Find the complement of life; and, by thefl
tables, find the value of 11. annuity for the years deno-b
ted by the faid complement; multiply this value by thei
amount
I
A N N TJ
Amount of 11. for a year, and divide the product by the
complement of life; then fubtra<5t the quot from i ; divide
the remainder by the intereft of x 1. for a year ; and this
laft quot will be the value of the annuity fought, or, in other
words, the number of years purchafe the annuity is worth.
• Examp. What is the value of an annuity of il. for
an age of 50 years* intereft at 5 ptr cent.
86
;o age given.
36 complement of life.
By the Tables, the value is, 16.5468
Amount of 11. for a year,  1.05
827340
165468
Complement of life, 36)17.374140^.482615
From unity, viz. 1.000000
Subtract .482615
Intereftofil. .05).517385(10.3477, value fought.
By the preceding problem is conftru&ed the follow¬
ing table.
The value of 11. annuity for a fingle life.
Vox,. I. No. 14. f 3
TIES. 321
The value of 11. annuity for a fingle life.
A. 3 per c. ^perc. 4 per c ^perc. 5 per c. 6 per c.
14.63
I4.4I
I4.I9
13.96
13.73
13.49
13.25
13.01
12.76
12.51
12.26
12.00
11.73
II.46
II.18
IO.9O
IO.61
IO.32
IO.O3
9-73
9.42
9,11
8.79
8.46
8.13
7-79
7-45
7.10
6.75
6.38
6.01
5-63
5-25
4.85
4-45
4.05
3-63
3.21
.. 2.78
80 2.34
13-79
13-59
13.40
13.20
12.99
12.78
12.56
12.36
12.14
11.92
11.69
11.45
11.20
IO.95
10.69
IO.44
IO.18
9.91
9.64
9.36
9.08
8 79
8.49
8.19
7.88
7.56
7.24
6.91
6.57
6.22
5-87
5.51
5.14
4-77
4.38
3.98
3-57
3.16
2-74
2.31
13.02
12.85
12.68
12.50
12.32
12.13
11.94
11.74
11.54
n-34
11.13
10.92
10.70
10.47
10.24
10.01
9-77
9.52
9.27
9.01
8.75
8.48
8.20
7.92
7.63
7-33
7.02
6.75
6.39
606
5.72
5-38
4.02
4.66
4.29
3-9i
3-52
3.11
2.70
2.28
11.70
11.54
11.37
11.19
11.00
10.82
10.64
10.44
10.24
10.04
9 82
9.61
9-39
9.16
8-93
8.69
8.44
8.19
7-94
7.67
7-39
7.12
6.83
6.54
.6.23
5.92
5-59
5.26
4.92
4-57
4.22
3-84
3-47
3.07
2.67
2.26
11.70
11.57
n-43
11.29
11.14
1O.99
10.84
10.68
10.51
IO-35
10.17
9.99
9.82
9-63
9.44
9.24
9.04
8.83
8.61
8.39
8.16
7-93
7.68
7-43
7.18
6.91
6.64
6.36
6.07
5-77
5-47
5-i5
4.82
4.49
4.14
3.78
3-41
3-°3
2.64
2.23
10.55
10.45
10.35
10.25
10.10
10.00
9.85
9-75
9.60
9-45
9.30
9.20
9.00
8.85
8.70
8.55
8-35
8.20
8 00
7.80
7.60
7.40
7.20
6.95
6.75
6.50
6.25
6.00
5-75
5.50
5.20
4.90
4.60
4.30
4.00
3-^5
3-3°
2.95
2-55
2->5
The above table Ihews the value of an annuity of one
pound for a fingle life, at all the current rates of inte¬
reft; atid is efteemed the beft table of this kind extant*
and preferable to any other of a different conftrufticn.
But yet thofe who fell annuities have generally one and
a half or two years more value, than fpecified in the
table, from purchafers whdfe age is 20 years or upwards.
Annuities of this fort are commonly bought or fold
at fo many years purchafe; and the value affigned in the
table may be fo reckoned. Thus the value of aii annuity
4 M of
322 A N N U I
bf one pound for an age of 50 years, at 3 per cent, in-
tereft, is 12.51; that is, 12 1. 10 s. or twelve and-a
half years purchafe. The marginal figures on the left of
the column of age ferve to fhorten the table, and fignify,
that the value of an annuity for the age denpted by them,
is the famd with the value of an annuity for the age de¬
noted by the numbers before whjch they ftand. Thus
the value of an annuity for the age of 9 and to years is
the fame ; and the value of an annuity for the age of 6
and 14, for the age of 3 and 24., 'be. is. the fame. The
further ufe of the; table will appear in the quefiojis and
problems following.
Quest, i. A perfon of 50 years would purchafe an
annuity for life of 200 1: What ready money ought he
to'pay, reckoning interell at 44- per cent. ?
By the table the value of 1 1. is to.8
Multiply by 200
Value to be paid in ready money 2164.00 Anf.
Quest. 2. A young merchant marries a widby/ lady
of; 40 years of age, with a jointure of 300 1. a-yearj and
wants to difpofe of the jointure for ready money: What
fum ought he to receive, reckoning imereft at 34 per
cent. ?
L.
By the table the value of 1 1. is 13.98
300
Value to be received in ready money 4194.00 Anf.
Prob. 2. To find the value of an annuity for the
joint continuance of two lives, one life failing, the an¬
nuity to ceafe.
Here there are two cafes, according as the ages of the
two perfons are equal or unequal.
1. If the two perfons be of the fame age, work by
the following
Rul.e. Take the value of any one of the lives from
the table, multiply this value by the intereft of 1 I. for
a year, fubtract the product from 2, divide the forefaid
value by the remainder, and the quot will be the value
of x 1. annuity, or the number of years purchafe fought.
Examp. What is the value of too 1. annuity for the
joint lives of two perfons, of the age of 30 years each.
reckoning intereft at 4 per cent. ?
By the table, one life of 30 years is - 14.68
Multiply by - .04
Subtrad the produft 5872
From - - 2.0000
Remains - 1.4128
And 1.4128)14.68(10.39 valueof 1 1. annuity.
And 10.39 * 100= 1039 the value fought.
2. If the two perfons are of different ages, work as
tlire&ed in the following
Rule. Take the values of the two lives from the
table, multiply them into one another, calling the refult
the firft produft; then multiply the faid firft produft by
the intereft of 1 1. for a year, calling the refult the fe-
cond produft; add the values of the two lives, and from
their fum fubtraft the fecond produft; divide the fiift
TIES.
produft by the remainder, and the quot will be the value
of 1 1. annuity, or the number of years purchafe fought.
Examp. What is the value of 70 1. annuity for the
joint lives of two perfons, wherof one is 40 and the other
50 years of age, reckoning intereft at 5 per cent. ?
By the table the value of 40 years is, - 11 ;8 3
And the value of 50 years is, - - 10.35
Firft produft, 122.4405
Multiply by - .05
Second prpduft, 6.12202J
Sum of the two lives, - 22.180000
Second produft deduft, 6.122025
Remainder, - 16.057975
And 16.057.975)122.4405(7.62 value of 1 1. annuity,
70
533.40 value fought.
Prob. 3. To find the value of an annuity upon the
longeft of two lives ; that is, to continue fo long as ei¬
ther of the perfons is in life.
Rule . From the fum of the values of the fingle lives*
fubtraft the value of the joint lives, and the remainder
will be the value fought.
Examp. What is the value of an annuity of 1 1. up-?
on the longeft of two lives, the one perfon being 30, and
the other 40 years of age, intereft at 4 per cent. ?
By the table, 30 years is, - - 14.68
40 years is, - - 13-20
Value of their joint lives, by Prob. 2.? 27.88
Cafe 2. is, j 9 62
Value fought, 18.26
If the annuity be any other than 1 1. multiply the an-
fwer found as above by the given annuity.
If the two perfons be of equal age, find the value of
their joint lives by Cafe* 1. of Prob. 2.
Prob. 4. To find the value of the next prefentation
to a living.
Rule. From the value of the fucceftbr’s life, fub¬
traft the joint value of his and the incumbent’s life, and
the remainder will be the value of 1 ]. annuity; which
multiplied by the yearly income, will give the fum to be
paid for the next prefentation.
Examp. A enjoys a living of 100 1. per annum, and
B would purchafe the faid living for his life after A’s
death : The queftion is, What he ought to pay for it,
reckoning intereft at 5 per cent. A being 60, and B 25
years of age ?
L.
By the table, B’s life is, - - 13-46
Joint value of both lives, by prob. 2. is, 6.97
The value of 1 1. annuity, - - - 6.49
Multiply by - - 100
Value of next prefentation, - - - 649.06
The
A N N U
The value of a direA prefentation is the fame as that of
any other annuity for life, and is found for i 1. by the
the table : which being multiplied by the yearly income,
gives the value fought.
Pros. 5. To find the value of a reverfion for ever,
after two fucceflive lives-; or to find the value of a living
after the death of the prefent incumbent and his fucceffcr.
Rulf. By Prob. 3. find the value of the longeft of
the two lives, and fubtradl that value from the value of
the perpetuity, and the remainder will be the value fought.
Examp. A, aged 50, enjoys an eftate or living of
100 1. per anniivi; B, aged 30, is intitled to his lifetime
of the fame eftate after A’s death; and it is propofed to
fell the eftate juft now with the burden of A and B’s lives
on it: What is the'reverfion worth, reckoning intereft at
4 per cent. ?
By the table, A's life of $0 is,
B’s life of 30 is.
Value of their joint lives, found by
Prob. 2. Cafe 2. is,
Value of the longeft life,
From the value of the perpetuity,
Remains the value of 1 1. reverfion.
Multiply by
Value of the reverfion.
Pros. 6. To find the value of the joint continuance
of three lives, on6 life failing, the annuity to ceafe.
Rule. Find the fingle vaJues of the three lives from
the table; multiply thefe fingle values continually, call¬
ing the refult the product of'the three lives ; • multiply
that product by the intereft of 1 1. and that prodmS again
by 2, calling the refult the double product; then, from
the fum of the feveral products of the lives, taken two
and two, fubtraft the double product; divide the prod lift
of the three lives by the remainder, and the quot will be
the value of the three joint lives,'
Examp. A is 18 years of age, B 34, and C 56:
What is the value of their joint lives, reckoning intereft
at 4 per cent. ?
By the table, the value of A’s life is 16.1, of B’s
14.12, and of C’s 10.01.
L.
u.34
14.68
n, 26.02
- 8.60
i7.42fub.
25.00
7.58
100
758.00
I T I E S. 323
16.1 X 14.12 X 10.01 = 2275.6, produft of the 3 lives.
 ^4
91.024
 2_
182.048, double produft.
Produft of A and B, 16.1 X 14.12 = 227.33
A and C, 16.1 X 10.01 = 161.16
B and C, 14.12X10.01 = 141.34
Sum of all, two and two, - - 529.83
Double produft fubtraft - - 182.048
Remainder - 347.782
And 347.782)2275.600(6.54 value fought.
Prob. 7. To find the value of an annuity upon the
longeft of three lives.
Rule. From the fum of the values of the three fin¬
gle lives taken from the table, fubtfaft the fhm of all the
joint lives, taken two and two, as found by Prob. 2.
and to the remainder add the value of the three joint
lives, as found by Prob. 6. and that fum will be the va¬
lue of the longeft life fought.
Examp. A is 18 years of age, B 34, and C 56:
What is the value of the longeft of thefe three lives, in¬
tereft at 4 per cent. ?
By the table,- the fingle value of A’s life is, 16.1
fingle value of B’s life is, 14.12
fingle value of C’s life is, 10.01
Sum of the fingle values, 40.23
By Prob. 2. the joint value of A and B is, 10.76
joint value of A and C is, 8.19
joint value of B and C is, 7.65
Sum of the joint lives, 26.69
Remainder, - - 13-63;
By Prob. 6. the value of the 3 joint lives is, 6.54
Value of the longeft of the 3 lives, - 20.17
Other problems might be added, but thefe adduced
are fufficient for moft purpofes. The reader probably
may wilh that the reafon of the rules, which, it muft be
owned, are intricate, had been affigned; but this could
not be done without entering deeper into the fubjeft than,
was prafticable in this place.- See Chances.
ANN"
ANNUITY of fiends, in Scots law, a certain propor¬
tion of the tiends of erefted benefices formerly payable
to the crown, but now gone into difufe.
ANNULAR, in a general fenfe, fomething in the form
of, or refembling a ring. It is alfo a peculiar deno¬
mination for the fourth finger, commonly called the
ring-finger.
ANNULATA, in zoology, an obfokte name of a fpe-
cies of coluber. See Coluber.
ANNULET, in architefture, a fmall fquare member in
the Doric capital, under the quarter-round.
ANN
Annulet is alfo a narrow flat moulding, which is
common to divers places of the columns, as in the ba-
fes, capitals, isc. It is the fame member which Vi¬
truvius calls a fillet; Palladio, a lifel or cindiure ;
Scamozzi, and Mr Brown, d. fupercUium, lift, tinea,
eye-brew, fqtiare, and rabbit. See. Architec¬
ture.
Annulet, in heraldry, a mark of diftinftion which the
fifth brother of a family ought to bear to his coat of
arms.
The hieroglyphic of the annulet is very various:
Some
A N O (3:
Some of .the Ancients ufed it to denote fervitude ; the
Romans reprefented by it liberty and nobility. It is
an emblem of fecrecy, if it have a feal; and of love,
if the cypher, the face, or the arms of the perfon be¬
loved are ingraved upon it.
ANNULLING, a term fometimes ufed for cancelling,
or making void^ a deed, fentence, or the like.
ANNUNCIADA, Annuntiada, or Annu-ntiata,
an order of knighthood in Savoy, firft inftituted by
Amadeus L in the year 1409; their collar was of ij
links, interwoven one with another, in form of a true
lover’s knot, and the motto, F. E. R. T. fignrfying,
Fort kudo ejus Rhodum tenuit. Amadeus VIII. gave
the name Annunciada to this order, which was for¬
merly known by that of tho knot of love, changing
at the fame time the image of St Maurice patron of
Savoy, which hung at the collar, for that of the Vir¬
gin Mary, and, inftead of the motto above-mentioned,
fubftituting the words of the angel’s falutation.
Annunciada is alfo the title of feveral religious orders,
inftituted at different times, and at different places,
in honour of the annunciation. See the next article.
ANNUNCIATION, the tidings brought by the angel
Gabriel to the Virgin Mary of the incarnation of
Chrift.
Annunciation is alfo a feftival, kept by the church
on the 25th of March, in commemoration of thefe ti¬
dings.
In the Romifli church, on this feaft, the pope per¬
forms the ceremony of marrying or cloyftering a cer¬
tain number of maidens, who are prefented to him in
the church, clothed in white ferge, and muffled up
from head to foot: An officer (lands by, with pur-
fes containing notes of fifty crowns for thofe who make
choice of marriage, and notes of a hundred for thofe
who chnfe the veil.
Annunciation is likewife a title given by the Jews
to part of the ceremony of the paffover.
ANNUNTIATOR, the name of an officer in the church
of Conftantinople. It was his bufinefe to inform the
people of the feftivals that were to be celebrated.
ANOCTORON, a term ufed by fome ecclefiaftical wri¬
ters for a church. See Church.
ANOCISTI, in zoology, an obfolete name of the echi¬
nus. See Echinus.
ANODYNE, in pharmacy, a term applied to medicines
which mitigate pain.
Among anodynes may be reckoned all relaxing re¬
medies, diluters, and medicines which by any means
deftroy acrimony, or expel wind, together with the
compound medicines of the (hops, which pafs under
this name ; fuch as the anodyne'balfam made of Caftile
foap, opium, camphire, faffron, and fpirit of wine.
ANOLYMPIADS, in Grecian antiquity, an appella¬
tion given by the Elaeans to fudh Olympic games as
had been celebrated under the direction of other dates
befides themfelves. See Olympiad.
ANOMOLISTICAL Tear, in aftronomy, the time
that the earth takes to pafs through her orbit: it is
.alfo called the periodical year.
The fpace of time belonging to this year is greater
4 ) A N S
than the tropical year, on account of the preceflion of
the equinoxes. See Precession, and Astronomy.
ANOMALOUS, a term applied to whatever is irregu¬
lar, or deviates from the rule obferved by other things
of the like nature.
ANOMALY, in aftronomy, an irregularity in the mo¬
tion of the planets, whereby they deviate from the a-
phelion or apogee.
ANOMIA, in zoology, a genus of (hell-infetfls belong¬
ing to the order of vermes teftacea. The ligula is e-
marginated, and the cilii are fixed to the fuperior
valve; it has two lineal brachii longer than the body-:
The valves of the (hell are equal. There are 25 fpe-
cies of the anomia; (uch of them whofe hiltory is
known, are all natives of the European feas.
ANOMOEANS, in church-hiftory, ancient heretics,
who afferted that the Son was of a nature different,
and in nothing like to that of the Father.
ANOMORHOMBOIDIA, in natural hiftory, a genus
of cryftalline fpars, of no determinate form, eafily fif-
file, but cleaving more readily in an horizontal than
in a perpendicular direction, their plates being compo-
fed of irregular arrangements of (liort and thick rhom-
boidal concretions. See Spar.
ANONA, in botany, a genus of the polyandria polygy-
nia clafs. The calix is three-leaved; the petals are
fix; the fruit is a roundiffi berry containing many
feeds. There are 8 fpecies of the anona, viz. the
muricata, fquamofa, reticulata, paluftris, glabra, tri¬
loba, Afiatica, and Africana. All of them natives of
the Indies.
ANONIS, in botany. See Ononis.
ANONYMOS, in botany, a fynonime of a fpecies of
fpermacoce and feveral other plants. See Sperma-
coce.
ANONYMOUS, fomething that is namelefs, or of which
the name is concealed.
Anonymous, in chemiftry. See Adiaphorous.
ANOREXY, in medicine, a loathing of meat, or want
of .appetite.
ANOT. See Ann or.
ANOTH, one of the Scilly iftands. See Scilly.
ANOUT, a fmall ifland in the Schagerrack, or that
part of the fea of Denmark which has Norway on the
north, Jutland on the weft, and the ifle of Zealand on
the fouth; it lies in 130 E. long, and 56° gb7 N.lat.
ANSA a river in Friuli in Italy, which difcharges it-
felf into the gulf of Venice.
ANSiE, in aftronomy, the parts of Saturn’s ring, which
are to be feen on each fide of that planet, when view¬
ed through a telefcope. See Astronomy.
ANSE, a fmall town of France in the Lyonnois, four
leagues north of Lyons.
ANSEL-WEIGHT, the fame with auncel-weight. See
Auncel.
ANSELM’j Art, or St Anselm’/ Art. See Art.
ANSER, in ornithology, the trivial name of a fpecies of
ans. See Ans.
ANSERES, the name which Linnaeus gives to his third
prder of birds. This order is diftinguiffled by the
following marks: The beak is covered with a fmooth
Ain
ANT ( 3
Ikin or membrane, wideft at the apex, and full of frrjail
holes like a lieve; the toes of the feet are conne<5ed
by a membrane,which enables them to fwim; the tibia,
or Ihin-bone, is Ihort and flat. They live upon wa¬
ter-plants, Allies, he. This order includes 12 gene¬
ra, viz. the anas, mergus, phaeton, plotuS, rhyncops,
, dromeda, alca, procellaria, pelecanus, larus, fterna,
and columbus. See thefe articles, and Natural
History.
Anser, in aftronomy, a ftar of the fifth or fixth mag¬
nitude, in the milky-way, between the fwan and eagle.
ANSES, in aftronomy, the fame with anfae. See An s ;e.
ANSIANACTES, a people of Africa, in the wellern
part of the ifle of Madagafcar.
ANSLO, a fea-port town of Norway, and province of
Aggerhuys, fituated in io° 12' E. long, and 590 30'
N. lat.
ANSPACH, or Ohnspach, a city of Germany, and
circle of Franconia, fituated in xo° 36' E. long, and
490 22' N. lat.
It is the capital of the marquifate of Anfpach, of
which family was the late queen Caroline.
ANSPESSADES, in the French armies, a kind of infe¬
rior officer in the foot, below the corporals, but above
the common centinels. There are ufually four or five
. of them in a company.
ANSTRUTHER Eafier and IVefler, two royal burghs
of Scotland, fituated on the fouth-eaft coaft of the
county of Fife, in 20 2$' W. long, and 56° 20
N. lat.
ANT, in zoology. See Formica.
ANTA, in the ancient architedlure, a fquare pilafter,
placed at the corners of buildings.
Anta, in geopraphy, a little city with a harbour, on
the coaft of Guinea in Africa.
ANTACHATES, in natural hiftory, a bituminous
done, which yields a fmell like myrrh, in burning.
ANTACIDS, in pharmacy, an appellation given to all
medicines proper to correft acid or four humours:
Such are the abforbent and obtundent clafles, he.
ANTAGONIST, denotes an adverfary, efpecially in
fpeaking of combats and games.
Antagonist mufcles, in anatomy, thofe which have
oppofite functions, as flexors and extenfors, abduc¬
tors and adductors, he.
ANTALIS, in zoology, the trivial name of a fpecies of
the dentalium. See Dentalium.
ANTALGICS, in medicine, the fame with anodynes.
See Anodyne.
ANTANACLASIS, in rhetoric, a figure which re-
. peats the fame word, but in a different fenfe; as, du?n
vivimus, vivamus.
ANTANAGOGE, in rhetoric, a figure by which, when
the accufation of the adverfary is unanfwerable, we
load him with the fame or other crimes.
ANTAN1SOPHYLLUM, in botany, a fynonime of
a fpecies of Boerhaavia. See Boerhaavia.
ANTAPHRODISIACS, in pharmacy, medicines pro¬
per to diminiffi the femen, and cohfequently extinguiffi
or leffen all defires of venery.
ANTARCTIC, in a general fenfe, denotes fomething
Vcl. I, No. 14. 3
25 ) AN T
oppofite to the anftic or northern pole. Hence, au¬
tarkic circle is one of the leffer circles of the Ipheie,
and diftant only 230 30' from the fouth pole, which
is likewife called autarkic for tlve fame reafon.
ANTARES, a ftar of the firft magnitude, otherwile
called thefcorpions henrt. See Scorpion.
ANTE', in heraldry, denotes that the pieces are let in¬
to one another in fuch form as is there expreffed; as,
for inftance, by dove-tails, rounds, fwallow-tails, or
the like.
ANTEAMBULONES, in Roman antiquity, fervants
who went before perfons of diftinkion to clear the
way before them. They ufed this formula, Date lo¬
cum domino meo, i. e. Make room, or way, for my
mafter.
ANTECEDENT, in general, fomething that goes be¬
fore another, either in order of time or place.
Antecedent, in grammar, the word to which a rela¬
tive refers.
Antecedent, in logic, is the firft of the two propofi-
tions in an enthymema.
Antecedent, in mathematics, is the firft of two
terms of a ratio, or that which is compared with the
other.
Antecedent^w/, in medicine, fuch as are obferved
before a diftemper is fo formed as to be reducible to
any particular clafs.
ANTECEDENCE, in aftronomy, an apparent motion
of a planet towards the weft, or contrary to the order
of the figns.
ANTECESSOR, one that goes before. It was an ap¬
pellation given .to thofe who excelled in any faience :
Juftinian applied it particularly to prefeffors of civil
law; and, in the univerfities of France, the teadiers
of law take the title antecejfores in all their thefes.
ANTECURSORES, in the Roman armies, a party of
horfe detached before, partly to get intelligence, pro-
vifions, he. and partly to chufe a proper place to en¬
camp in. Thefe were otherwife called antecejjores,
and by tjie Greeks prodromi.
ANTEDATE, among lawyers, a fpurious or falfe date,
prior to the true date of a bond, bill, or the like.
ANTEDILUVIAN, whatever exifted before Noah’s
flood: Thus, the generations from Adam to Noah
arz caWcS. the antediluvians. See Deluge.
ANTEGO, one of the Caribbee iflands, in the Atlantic
or American ocean, fituated in 62° W. long, and
170 30' N. lat. It is about 20 miles long, and a,s
many broad.
ANTEJURAMENTUM, by our anceftors called ju-
ramentum calutnniee, an oath which anciently both
accufer and accufed were to take before any trial or
purgation.
The accufer was to fwear that he would profecute
the criminal; and the accufed to make oath, on the
day he was to undergo the ordeal, that he was inno¬
cent of the crime charged again!! him.
ANTELOPE, in zoology. See Capra.
ANTEMURALE, in the ancient military art, denotes
much the fame with what the moderns call an out-
‘luork.
t 4 N
ANTEN-
ANT
ANTENCLEMA, in rhetoric, called by the Latins
relatio, is when the fault is imputed, upon any mif-
fortune happening, to the perfon to whom it happened.
ANTENNiE, in the hiftory of infedts, flender bodies
with which nature has furnifhed the heads of thefe
creatures,' being the fame with what in Engliih are
calledJitf/v/j- or feelers.
ANTEPAGMENTA, in the ancient architecture, the
jambs of a door. They are alfo ornaments, or gar-
nifhings, in carved work, of men, animals, ■ made
either of wood or done, and fet on the architrave.
ANTEPENULTIMA, in grammar, the third iyllable
of a word from the end, or the laft fyllable blit two.
ANTEPIL AN I, in the Roman armies, a name given to
the haftati and principes, becaufe they marched next
before the triarii, who were called pilani.
ANTEPILEPTICS, among phyficians, medicines e-
fteemed good in the epilepfy.
ANTEPOSITION, in grammar, the placing a word
lirft .which fhould (land lad.
ANTEPREDICAMENTS, • among logicians, certain
preliminary queftions which illuftrate the doctrine 6f
predicaments and categories.
ANTEQUIERA, a town of Granada, in Spain ; (itu-
ated in W. long. 40 40', and N. lat. 36° 40', about
25 miles north of Malaga.
ANTEQUIRA-NOVA, an epifcopal city of New Spain,
in America, in the province of Guaxaca.
ANTERIDES, in the ancient architecture, buttrefles
erected to fupport a wall. See Buttress.
ANTERIOR, denotes fomething placed before another,
either with refpect to time or place.
ANTEROTES, in natural hiftory, a name given by
the ancients to a fpecies of amethyd. See Amethyst.
ANTESIGNANI, in the Roman armies, foldiers pla¬
ced before the (landards, in order to defend them, ac¬
cording to Limpfius; but Csefar and Livy mention the
antsfignani as the firfl line, or (irft body, of heavy¬
armed troops. The velites, who ufed to (kirmifh be¬
fore the army, were likewife called antefignani.
ANTESTATURE, in fortification, a fmall retrench¬
ment made of palifadoes, or facks of earth, with a
view to difpute with an enemy the remainder of a piece
of ground
ANTEVIRGILIAN lmjbandry> an appellation given
to Mr Tull’s new method of horfe-hoeing hulbandry.
See Agriculture, Part II,
ANTHAKIA, in geography, the fame with Antioch.
See Antioch.
ANTHELIX, in anatomy, the inward protuberance of
the externa] ear, being a femicircle within, and almoft
parallel to-the helix. See p. 295.
ANTHELMINTICS, among phyficians, medicines pro¬
per to deftroy worms. See Pharmacy.
ANTHEM, a church-fong,. performed in cathedral-fer-
vice by choriders who fung alternately.
ANTHEMIS, or Camomile, in botany,, a genus of ^
the fyngenefia polygamia fuperflua clafs. The recep¬
tacle of the anthemis is paleaceous ; it has no pappus;
the calix is globular. There are iS fpecies of anthe-
mis, only five of which, are natives of Britain, viz.
ANT
the nobilis, or fweet-feented camomile ; the cotula, or
(linking May-weed ; the arvenfis, or corn-camomile ;
the maritima, or fea-camomile ; and the tindloria, or
common ox-eye. The flowers of the anthemis nobilis
are carminative, emolknt, and aperient.
ANTHERiE, among botanifls, the little roundifli or
oblong bodies on the tops of the (lamina of plants.
See Stamina, and Botany.
ANTHERICUM, in botany, a genus of the hexandria
monogynia clafs. 7'he corolla has fix petals open at the
top; and the capfule is ovated. There are 13 fpecies
of anthericum, none of which are natives of Britain,
except the calyculutum, or Scottifh afphodel.
ANTHESPORIA, in antiquity, a Sicilian feftival, in-
(lituted in honour of Proferpine.
ANTHESTERIA, in Grecian antiquity^ feftivals cele¬
brated in the fpring, by the ancient Athenians, in ho¬
nour of Bacchus, during which the mafters feafted
their (laves, as the Romans did in the time of the Sa¬
turnalia.
ANTHESTEP,ION, in ancient chronology, the fixth
month of the Athenian year, anfwering to the. latter
part of our November and beginning of December. .
ANTHIAS, in ichthyology, the trivial name of a fpe¬
cies of labrus. See Labrus.
ANTHINE among the ancients, a kind of wine
medicated with the flowers of plants.
ANTHOCEROS, in botany, a genus of the crypto-
gamia clafs. The calix of the male is fefiile, cylin¬
drical, and intire; the antherte are very long, fubu-
lated, and two-valved; the calix of the female is
divided into fix pieces; the feeds are three. There
are only three fpecies of the anthoceros, viz. the punc-
tatus, or fpotted anthoceros, a native of Britain ; the
laevis, a native of Europe and America ; andthemul-
tifidus, a native of Germany.
ANTHOLOGION, the title of the fervice-book ufed
in the Greek church.
It is divided into twelve months, containing the of¬
fices fung throughout the year, on the feflivals of our
Saviour, the Virgin, and other remarkable faints.
ANTHOLOGY, a difeourfe of flowers, or of beauti¬
ful paflages from any authors. -
Anthology is alfo the name given to a colledtion of c-
pigranis taken from feveral Greek poets.
ANTHOLYZA, a genus of the triandiia monogynra
clafs. The calix is tubular, irregular, and bent back;
the capfule is below the flower. There are four fpe¬
cies of the antholyza, viz. the ringens. a native of Al-
thiopia; the cunonia, a native of Perfia; the aethio.-
pia, a native of .Ethiopia; and the meriana, a native
of the Cape of Good-Hope.
ANTHONY, or Knights 5/St Anthony, a milita¬
ry order, inftituted by Albert duke of Bavaria, Hol¬
land, and Zealand, when he defigned to make war a-
gaind the Turks in 1382. The knights wore a coh-
lar of gold, made in form of a hermit’s girdle, from
which hung a Hick cut like a crutch, with a little bel),
as they are reprefented in Anthony’s piflures.
St Anthony’./ fire, a name fometimes given to the ery-
fipelas. See. Erysipelas.
( 3^ )
ANTHORA,
ANT (32
ANTHORA, in botany, the trivial name of a fpecies of
aconitum. See Aconitum.
ANTHORiSMUS, in rhetoric, denotes a contrary de-
fcription or definition of a thing from that given by
the adverfe party.
ANTHOS, a Greek term, properly (ignifying a flower,
but ufed by fome writers to denote rofemary by way
of eminence.
Anthos is fometimes alfo.ufed for the elixir of gold,
as" well as for a medicine ex traded from pearls
Anthos philyfophorum, denotes a certain method of
tranfmuting metals by vitriol.
ANTHOSATIJM acetum, the vinegar of rofemary
flowers.
ANTHOSPERMUM, in botany, a genus of the poly-
gamia dioecia clafs. The calix of the hermaphrodue
flower is divided into four, parts; it has no corolla;
the (lamina are four, and the pifcilli t’rvo; the germen
is below the flower. There are two fpecies of antho-
fpermum, viz. the aethiopicam, a native of .Ethio¬
pia; and the ciliare, a native of the Cape of Good-
Hope.
ANTHOXANTHUM, in botany, a genus of the dian-
dria digynia clafs. The calix is a bivalved gluma, with
one flower ; the corolla is bivalved, obtufe, and with¬
out any awn. There' are three fpecies of anthoxan-
thum,. viz. the odoratum, or-fpring-grafs, a native of
Britain; the indicum, a native of India; and the pa-
niculatum, a native of the font hern parts of Europe.
ANTHRACIS, Anthracias, or Anthracitis,
names promifcuoufly ufed by ancient naturalifts for very
different foflils, viz. the carbuncle, hasmatites,. and a
kind of afleria. See Carbuncle, 6u.
ANTHRACOSIS, in medicine, a corrofive fcaly ulcer,
either in the bulb of the eye or the eye-lids.
ANTHRAX, a Greek term, literallydignifying a burn¬
ing coal, ufed by the ancients to denote a gem, as well
as a difeafe, more generally known by the name of
carbuncle. See Carbuncle.
Anthrax is fometimes alfo ufed for lithanthrax, or
pit-coal. See Lithanthrax.
ANTHRISCUS, in botany, the trivial name of a fpe¬
cies of tordy 1mm See Tordylium.
ANTHROPOGLOTTUS, among zoologifls, an ap¬
pellation given to flich animals as have tongues refem-
bling that of mankind, particularly to the parrot kind.
ANTHROPOGRAPHY, denotes the defcription of the
human body, its. parts, flrudture, fcc. See Ana*
tomy.
ANTHROPOLATRT, in church-hiftory, an appella¬
tion given to the Neftonans, on account of their wor-
fhipping CHrift, notwithftanding that they believed.
him to be a mere man.
ANTHROPOLATRIA, the paying divine honours to
a man, fuppofed to be the rnoff ancient kind of ido-.
latry.
ANTHROPOLOGY, a difcourfe upon human nature.
Anthropology, among divines, denotes that manner
of expreflion by which the infpired writers attribute
human parts and paflions to God.
ANTHROPOMANCY, a fpecies of divination, per-
7 ) ANT
formed by infpe<£b‘ng the intrails of a human creature,
ANTHROPOMORPHA, a term formerly given to the
primates, or that clafs of animals which luve the great-
eft: refemblance to the human kind. See Natural
History.
ANTHROPOMORHISM, amongecclefiaftjcal writers, .
denotes the herefy or error of the Anthropomprphites,
See the next article.
ANTHROPOMORPHITES, in chu'rch-hiftory, a fedt
of ancient heretics, who, taking every thing fpoken of
God in fcripture in a literal fenfe, particularly that
padage of Genefis in which it is faid God made vian
after bis own image, maintained. That God had a
human (hape They are likewife called Audeatu, from
Audens their leader.
ANTHROPOMORPHOUS, an appellation given to
whatever refe'mbles the human form.
ANTHROPOPATHY, a figure or expreflion by which
fome paflion is aferibed to God, which properly be¬
longs only to man.
ANTHROPOSCOPY, that part of phyfiognomy which
judges of a man’s chaiadter, ijc.- from.the lineaments
of his body..
ANTHROPOPHAGY, the aft. of eating human flefli.
This horrid pradhce is faid to prevail in fome parts of
Africa.and America. But it is greatly to be doubted
if ever fuch a cuftom exifted,
ANTROPOTH Y’SIA, the inhuman pradlice of offering .
human facrifices. See Sacrifice.
ANTHUM, in Botany. See Epithymu.m.
ANTHUS, in ornithology, a fynonyme of thelofeia. ..
See Lose 1.c,
ANAHYLLUS, in botany, a genus of the diadelphia
decandria clafs. The calix is ventricofe, and the hv
gumen is roundifh. There are 10 fpecies of anthy!-
lus, viz. the tetraphylla,. montana, cornicina, lotoi-
des, barba jovis, heterophylla, cytifoides, heimanias,
and erinacea, all natives of Spain, Italy, and the fpu- •
them parts of Europe ; and the vulneraria, kidney-
vetch, or lady’s finger, a native of Britain..
ANTHYPOPHORA, in rhetoric, a figure of fpeech.;
being the counter-part of an hypophora. See Hypo-
pfora.
ANTI, a Greek prepofition, which enters into the com-
pofition of feveral words, both Latin, French, and
Englifh, in different fenfes. Sometimes it fignifies
before, as in. anti-chamber; and fometimes oppojite or
contrary, as in. the names-of. thefe medicines, anti-
fcorbutics, anti-venereal. .
ANTIADES, in anatomy, a name fometimes ufed for
the gla[nds,.more ufuaHy called/a-v/f/j-. See p. 296.
ANTIDIAPHORISTS, in. church-hiftory, the oppo--.
fers of the Adiaphorifts. See Adiaphori srs.
ANTIBACCHIUS, in ancient poetry, a foot confifting .
of three fyllables; .the two firll long, and the laft one
fhort; fuch is the word amblre.
ANTIBES, a fea-port town of Provence in France, fi-
tuated on the Mediterranean, in E. long, f, N. lat.
430, 40'.
ANTICARDIUM, in antiquity, the fame with.fcrobi--
culum cordis.'
ANTI---
ANT (32
ANTICHAMBER, an outer chamber for Grangers to
wait in, till the perfon to be fpoken with is at leifure.
ANTICHRESIS, among civilians, the fame with what
in common law is-called a mortgage. See Mortgage.
ANTICHRIST, among ecclehaftical writers, denotes
a great adverfary of Chriitianity, who is to appear upon
the .earth towards the end of the world. He is call¬
ed in fcripture; The man of fin, the man of perdi¬
tion, See. 1
ANTICHTHONES, in ancient geography, an appella¬
tion given to the inhabitants of oppofite hemifpheres.
ANTICOR, or Anticoeur, among farriers, an in¬
flammation in the hoife’s throat, being the fame with
the quinzy in mankind.
ANT1COSTE, an American ifland, fituated before the
mouth of the river St Lawrence, in 64° W. long, and
490 52' N. lit.
ANTICUS, a term ufed by anatomifts, importing, that
the part with which it is joined ftands before fome
others : Thus, we meet with ferratus amicus, pero-
nceus anticus.
ANTIDESMA, in botany, a genus of the dioecia pen-
tandria ciafs. The cahx of the male con fids of 5
leaves ; it has no corolla : The calix of the female is
entire, gaping a little on one fide ; it has no corolla,
but two Ityli, and a double valved capfule inclofed in
the calix. There is but one fpecies of the antidefma,
viz. the alexeteria, a native of India.
ANTIDICOMARIANITES, in church-hiftory, here¬
tics, who maintained that the Virgin Mary did not
preferve a perpetual virginity. *
ANTIDOTE, among phyficians, a remedy taken to
prevent, or to cure the effedts of poifon, &c.
ANTIENT, or Ancient, a term applied to things
which exifted long ago : Thus we fay, ancient na¬
tions, ancient cuftoms, (be.
Antient, in a military fenfe, denotes either the enfign,
or the colours.
Antient, in (hips of war, the ftreamer or flag borne
in the ftern.
ANTIGONIA, the name of two cities, one in Epirus,
now called Cafro Argire, the other in Macedon, now
Cclogna.
ANTIHECTICS, in pharmacy, medicines good in hec¬
tical diforders.
ANTILLES, the fame with the Caribbec iflands.
ANTILOGARITHM, the complement of a logarithm.
ANTILOGY, in matters of literature, an inconfiftency
between two or . more pafiages of the fame book.
ANTILYSSUS Pulvis, a medicine confiding of equal
parts of the lichen cinereus terreftris, and black pep¬
per, reckoned good to prevent the rabies canina.
ANTIMETABOLE, in rhetoric, a figure whereby two
things are fet in oppofition to each other.
ANTIMONARCHICAL, an appellation given to what¬
ever oppofes monarchial government. See Mo¬
narchy.
ANTIMONIALS, in medicine, preparations of anti¬
mony. See Antimony, and Chemistry.
ANTIMONIATED, fomething impregnated with the
virtues of antimony.
3 ) ANT
ANTIMONY, in natural hiftory, one of the femi-me-
tals. See Chemistry, title, Of metals.
ANTINOMIANS, in church-hiftory, certain heretics
who firft appeared about the year 1535 ; fo called,
becaufe they rejedted the law, as of no ufe under the
gofpel-difpenfation, with other doftrines equally ab-
furd.
ANTIOCH, a town of Syria, formerly its capital, but
now in a ruinous condition ; fituated on the river Oron-
tes, in 370 E. long, and 36° N. lat.
ANTIOCHENUM, in botany, a fpecies of convolvulus.
See Convolvulus.
ANTIPAGMENTA. See Antepagmenta.
ANTIPATHY, a natural averfion of one body to ano¬
ther, in contradiftin&ion to fympathy. See Sym¬
pathy.
ANTIPERISTALTIC motion of the intejlines, the re-
verfe of the periftaltic motion. See Peristaltic.
ANTIPERISTASIS, in the peripatetic philofophy, an
imaginary intention or heightening of any quality by
the oppolicion of its contrary.
ANTIPHONY, in mufic, the name which the Greeks
gave to that kind of lymphony which was executed ia
o&ave or double odlave. It is likewife the anfwer
made by one choir to another, when an anthem is fung
between them.
ANTIPHRASIS, in rhetoric, a figure by which in fay¬
ing one thing we mean the contrary. See Irony.
ANTIPODES, in geography, a name given to thofe in¬
habitants of the globe that live diametrically oppofite
to one another. They lie under oppofite parallels, and
oppofite meridians. They have the fame elevation of
their different poles. It is midnight with the one,
when it is noon-day with the other; the longeft day
with the one is the (horteft with the other; and the
length of the day with the one is equal to the night of
the other. See Geography.
ANTIPOPE, in the Rcmifti church, one elefted pope
in an irregular manner, in oppofition to another.
A.TIPTOSIS, in rhetoric, a figure which puts one cafe
for another. See Case.
ANTIQUARY, a perfon who ftudies andfearches after
monuments and remains of antiquity.
There were formerly in the chief cities of Greece
and Italy, perfons of .diftindlion called antiquaries,
who made it their bufinefs to explain the ancient in-
feriptions, and give every other alfillance in their power
to ftrangers who were lovers of that kind of learning.
There is a fociety .of antiquaries in London, incorpo¬
rated by the king’s charter.
ANTIQUATED, fomething obfolete, out of date, or
out of ufe.
ANTIQUE, in a general fenfe, fomething that is an¬
cient : but the term is chiefly ufed by fculptors, paint¬
ers, and architefts, to denote fuch pieces of their dif¬
ferent arts as were made by the ancient Greeks and
Romans. Thus w6 fay, an antique buf, an antique
fatue, Sec.
ANTIQUITY, fignifies times or ages paft long ago.
Thus we fay, the heroes of antiquity. Sec. It is often
ufed for the works or monuments of the ancients. Re-
fearches
ANT (( 3:
■ fearihes info antiquity have frequently been ufeful.
But.thefe refearches, unlefs they are conducted vyith
judgment, are extremely liable.to ridicule.
ANTIRRHINUM, in-botariy, a genus of the didy.-
namia angiofpermia clafs. The calix confjts of five
: leaves; the b'afis'of the Corolla is bent’backwafds, an'd
furnifhed with pedtoria; thecapfi.de is bilocular. There
. are 14 ipecies of the antirrhinum-, 10 of which afe
natives of Britain, viz. the cymbalaria, or ivy-leaved
- toad-grafs ; the elatine, or Iharp-pointed fluellin ; th'e
ipurium, or round-leaved fluellin; the arvenfe, or
corn-blue toad-flax; the repens, or creeping toad-flax ;
■ the monofper.mum, pr fweet-fmelling toad-flax; the
. linaria, or cojnmon yellow toad-flax; thq minus,', or
- leaft toad-flax; the majus, or greater fnapdragon ; and
the orontium, or lead fnapdragon. The linaria is faid to
. be c&thartic and diuretic; but it is not ufed in the fliopS,
ANTISAGOGE, in rhetoric, the lame with conceflion.
: See Concession.
ANTISCII, in geography, people who live on different
fides of the equator, whofe ftiadows at noon are .proT
jeded oppofite ways. Thus the people of die north
. are Antifcii to thofe of the fouth, the one projeding
: their ftiadows at noon toward the north pole, and the
other toward the fouth pole.
ANTISQORBUTICS, medicines - good in fcorbutical
cafes.
ANTISEPTICS, among pjiyficians, a, denomination
given to all fubftance? that refill putrefadion-. Such
as falts of all kinds, vinegar, myrrh, fnaky-root, pep-
1 per, e':c.
ANTISTOECHON, in grammar, the ufing one letter
r inftead of another, as olli for iiii.
ANTISTROPHE, in grammar, figure by which two
things mutually depending on one another, pre reici-
; procally converted; as'r/ia J'efvaflt of th* vtafter, (He
■ mafter pf the fervant.
A.Nf ts'VROPHE, among lyric poets, that part of a fon^
and dance in ufe among the ancients, which was per-
. formed befote the altar, in returning from weft to eaft,
in oppofition to ftrophe. See Strophe, and Ode.
ANTITACT A:,- in churcE hiftory, a' branch of Gno'-
ftics, who held, that God was good and juft, but that
. a creature had.created evil; and confequeatly that it is
our duty to oppofe this author of evil, in order to.a-
. -venge God of bis adverfary.
ANTITHENAR, 'n anatomy, a name given to die ad-
i duflor indicis. See p. 2-10.
ANTITHESIS* Contrail,, or oppofition of words >or
fentiments; as,
■ Though gentle,-yet not dull,
Strong ’without rage, ’without o'erfl'swing full.
ANTITHET, denotes either a quality or thing fet .in
< oppofition to its contrary,
ANTITHETARIUS, In la»v, aperfim who endeavours
- to acquit llinifelf 'by' dwg'-ng tfle accufer with the
fame fa<ft. .
ANTITRAGUS mufculti’, in anatomy, a mufcle;of
- the ear. See p. 395. par.^.;
ANTITRINITARIANSi a general name given to all
'.9 J A N U
thofe who deny the doftrine of the Trinity, and par
ricularly to the Arians and Socinians.
ANTITYPE, among eccldiaftical writers, denotes a
type correfponding to fome other type or figure.
ANTIYARI, a fea-port town of-Albania, fituated on
<• the^gqlph of Venice, in 190 40' E. long. and420.IO,
N. lat. It is fubjedi to the Turks.
ANIIVEIRIA, a province or fubdivifion of Terr£
Firma, in South America, lying fouthwards of Car-
thagena, '
AN ! LRR, among fportfmen, a ftart or branch of a
deer’s attire.
Amw-ANTLER,' denotes the branch next the head; ahda
^/-Antler, the branch next above the brow-antkr.
ANTOECI, in geography, thqfe inhabitants of the
earth who live under the fame meridian, and at the
<■ fame diftance.from the equator; the one toward th^
, north, and the .other toward the fouth. Hence they
have the fame longitude ; and their latitude is a!fo
the fame,, but of a different denomination. They ar^
in the fame femicircle of the meridian, but oppofite in
' parallels. They have precifely the fame hours of the
day and night, but oppofite feafons; and the night of
the one is always equal to the day of the other.
ANTONIAN Waters, medicinal waters of Germafiyt
very pleafant to the tafte, and efteemed good in many
. chronic and, hypochondriac cafes.
ANTONIO,, one of the Cape de ,Verd iflands, fubjaft to
the Portuguefe, and fituated in 2f>° W. long, and t33
NY lat.
ANTONOMASIA a form of fpeecb,, in which, fot a
prqpcr name, is put the name of fome dignity, office,"
. profeffion, fcience, or trade; or when a proper name
. is put .in* the room of an appellative. Thus a king is
called his majefty; a nobleman, his lordftiip. YVe
. fry rhe phiiofopher inftea'd ef Ariftotle,' and the ora¬
tor for Cicero : Thus a 'man is called by the name, of
.' his country, a German', an Italian; and.a grave man
Y is called a Cato, and a wife man a Solomon.
ANTRIM, the moft north-eaft county of Ulfter, in
the kingdom of Ireland. It is alfo the name of the
chief town of the aforefaid county, fituated at the
. north end of Lochneah, in 6° 26' W. long, and sq6
• 45' N. lat.
Antrum, among aoatomifts, a term ufed to denote fe-
veral cavities of the body; as the antrum highmoria-
• Oum,- or that in the maxillary or jaw-bone, fttf. Se6
p. 162. par. 2.
ANTWERP, a beautiful city of the Auftrian Nether*
- lands, and capital, of the marquifate of the fame name.
It ftands on the ea.tern ihore of the river Scheld, ,3-
bout 2,5 miles Dorth of Bruffels, and in 40 if E.
- long, and 510 15'N. lat. v
A7ITYX, in antiquity, denotes the circumference,.,or
• outermoft round of a Afield.
ANyiL, an iron inftrument on which ftniths hammer o^
forge their work, and is ufually mounted on a firm
wooden block.
ANUS, in anatomy, the extremity ©£ tlpe inteftinurn rec^
turn, cfiqrifice of the fundament. See p, 2]6i. par. .2-.
4 O . an-
APE ( 33° ) A P H
ANWEILLER, a fmall city of France, in the Lower
Alface, upon the river Queich.
ANZAR, a city of Turquelfan, near Catai, where Ta¬
merlane died.
ANZERMA, a town of S. America, in the kingdom
of Popajan, upon the river. Cauca, fituated in 470
W. long, and 40 S. lat.
ANZUGUI, a town in the ifland of Japan, upon the
bay of Mecao.
AONIDES, in mythology, one of the many appella¬
tions of the mufes, fo called from Aonia, a part of
ancient Bceotia.
AORIST, among grammarians, a tenfe peculiar to the
Greek language, comprehending all the tenfes, or
rather exprelling an adtion in an indeterminate man¬
ner, without any regard to part, prefent, or future.
AOUST, a town of Piedmont in Italy, capital of the
duchy of the fame name, fituated about 50 miles
north of Turin, in 70 10' E. long, and 450 45' N.lat.
APAGOGICAL Den/onjiration, an indirect way of
proof, by fhewing the abfurdity of the contrary.
APALACHIAN Mountains, a ridge of mountains of
N. America, lying weftward of the Britifh plantations,
arid extending from 30° to 40° N. lat,
APAMEA, or Hama, a town of Syria, fituated on the
river Oronies, in 38° E. long, and 340 N. lat.
Apamea is alfo the name of a town of Phrygia, upon
the river Marfyas; of a town of Midia, confining up¬
on Parthia; and of a town of Bithynia, called by the
Turks Myrlea.
APANAGE, or Apennage, in the French cufloms,
lands affigned by a fovereign for the fubfiftence of his
younger Ions, which revert to the crown upon the fail¬
ure of male ifiue in that branch to which the lands are
granted.
APARINE, in botany, a fynonime of the utricularia
and feveral other plants.
$PATHY, a term in philofophy, denoting an utter pri¬
vation of paffion, and an infenfibility of pain. Thus
the Stoics affefted an entire apathy, fo as not to be
ruffled, or fenfible of pleafure or pain.
APATIZATIO, a law-term, fignifying an agreement.
^PATURIA, in Grecian antiquity, an Athenian fefti-
val, kept in honour of Bacchus. It was during this
folemnity that the young people were regiftered in the
' refpe&ive wards of their fathers.
APE, the Englifh name of the fimia or monkey. See
Si mia.
APELITES, Chriftian heretics in the feeond century,
who affirmed that Chrift received a body from the four
elements, which at his death he rendered back to the
world, and fo afcended into heaven without a body.
APENE, in antiquity, the chariot in which the images
of the gods were carried on folemn occafions.
APENNAGE, in the French cuftoms See Apanage.
APENNINE, a vaft ridge of mountains, which runs
through the middle of all Italy, from Savona, to the
very ftreight that feparates Italy from Sicily.*
APENRADE, a town of Slefwic, or S. Jutland, fitu¬
ated on a bay of the Baltic fea, in xo° E. long, and
55° N. lat.
APENZEL, a town of Switzerland, capital of the can¬
ton of the fame name, and fituated in 90 E. long,
and 47° 30* N. lat.
APEPSY, in medicine, denotes crudity, or a bad dige-
geftion.
APER, in zoology, a fynonime of the fus fcrofa. See
Sus.
Aper is likewife a trivial name of a fpecies of Zeus,
See Zeus.
APERIENTS, in the materia medica, an appellation
given to fuch medicines as facilitate the circulation of
the humours by removing obftrudtions.
The five greater aperient roots of the (hops are
fmallage, fennel, afparagus, parfley, and butcher’s
broom; as the five leffer ones are grafs, madder, e-
ryngo, capers, and chammoc.
APERTURE, the opening of any thing, or a hole or
cleft in any continuous fubjeft.
Aperture, in geometry, the fpace between two right
lines which meet in a point and form an angle.
Aperture, in optics, a round hole in a turned bit of
wood or plate of tin, placed within the fide of a tele-
fcope or mrcrofcope, near to the objedt-glafs, by means
of which more rays are admitted, and a more diitin<5t
appearance of the object is obtained.
Apertures, or Apertions, in architefture, areufed
to fignify doors, windows, chimneys, &c.
APERTURA tabularum, in law-books, the breaking
open a laft will and teftament.
Apertura feudi, in the civil law, fignifies the lofs of
a feudal tenure, by default of iffue to him to whom
the feud was fir 11 granted.
APETALOSE, or Apetalous, among botanifts, an
appellation given to fuch plants as have no flower-
leaves.
APEX, in antiquity, the creft of a helmet, but more
efpecially a kind of cap worn by the flamens.
Apex, among grammarians, denotes the mark of a long
fyllable, falfely called along accent.
APHACA, in botany, a fynonime of the lathyrus. Sec
Lathyrus.
APHA1RESIS, in grammar, a figure by which a letter
or fyllable is cut off from the beginning of a word.
Aphjeresis, that part of furgery which teaches to take
away fuperfluities.
APHANES, in botany, a genus of the tetrandria digy-
nia clafs. The calix is divided into eight parts; it
has no corolla; and has two naked feeds. There is
only one fpecies of aphanes, viz. the arvenfis, or pur-
fley-piert, a native of Britain.
APHELIUM, or Aphelion, in aflxonomy, is that
point in any planet’s orbit, in which it is furtheft di-
ftant from the fun, being that end of the greater axis
of the elliptical orbit of the planet moll remote from
the focus where the fun is.
APHIS-, in zoology, a genua of infers belonging to the
order of infedta hemiptera. The rollrum or beak of
the aphis is infle&ed; the antennae or feelers are long¬
er than the thorax; it has four ered wings; the feet
are of the ambulatory kind; and the belly often ends
in two horns. There are 33 fpecies of the aphis, all
JlA /:
Plate XXII.
? /'(/?. / Akguis Meleagbxs
/A,// /
r )%. d. AXOUIS ScYTAEE
API (3
of which are inhabitants of particular plants; and
from this circumftance their trivial names are taken;
as aphis ribis, ulmi, rofse, fee.
APHORISM, a maxim, or principle, of a fcience; or
a fentence which comprehends a great deal in a few
words.
APHRATIC, in the maritime affairs of the ancients,
were open veflels, without any decks.
APHRODIS1A, in antiquity, feftivals kept in honour
of Venus, the mod remarkable of which was that ce¬
lebrated by the Cyprians.
APHRODISIACS, among phyficians, medicines which
• increafe the quantity of feed, and create an inclination
to venery.
APHRODITA, in zoology, an infeft of the order of
vermes mollufca. The body of the aphrodita is oval,
with many fmall tentacula or protuberances on each
fide, which ferve as fo many feet: The mouth is cy-
lyndrical, at one end of the body, and capable of be¬
ing retraced, with two briifly tentacula. There are
four fpecies of this infedl, viz. i. The aculeata, with
32 tentacula, or feet, an inhabitant of the European
feas. See Plate XXII. fig. 4. This figure is taken
from the life. It was found on the fhore of the frith of
Forth, about a mile eaft from Leith, by Dr Letfom,
and by him communicated to the proprietors of this
work. Johnfton, Seba, and other authors, have given
figures of the aphrodita; but they are not fo accurate
as could be wiihed. 2. The fcabra, of an oblong
fhape, fcabrous on the back, with about 20 tentacula.
3. The fquamata, W'ith 24 feet, and fcaly on the back.
4. The imbricata, is very like the former, only its
fcalcs are more glabrous.
APHRODITES, the fame with gemma veneris. See
Gemma.
APHRONITRE, in natural hiftory, a name given by
the ancients to a particular kind of natrum.
APHT1LE, in medicine, fmall, round, and fuperficial
ulcers arifing in the mouth. The principal feat of
this difeafe, is the extremity of the excretory veffels,
falival glands, and, in ihort, all glands that fumifh a
humour like the faliva, as the lips, gums, fee,
APHUA cebites, in ichthyology. See Gobi us.
APHYLLANTHES, or Blue Montpelier Pink, in bo¬
tany, a genus of the hexandria monogynia clafs. There
is but one fpecies, viz. the monfpelienfis, which grows
in the high grounds near Montpelier. It is extreme¬
ly like the juncus, only the flower has a corolla.
APIARY, a place where bees are kept.
APIASTELLUM, or Apiastrum, in botany. See
Melissa.
APIASTER, in ornithology, the trivial name of a fpe¬
cies of the merops. See Mekops.
APICES, in botany, the fame with antherx. See xAn-
T H E RAJ.
APIOS, it botany. See Glycine.
APIS, or the Bee, in zoology, a genus of infers belong¬
ing to the order of infefta hymenoptera. The mouth
is furnilhed with two jaws, and a probofeis infolded in
a double {heath ; the wings are four in number, the
two fore.nofi covering thofe behind when at reft; In
30 API
the anus or tail of the females and working bees, which
are of no fex, there is a hidden fting. Linnaeus enume¬
rates no lefs than 55 fpecies of the apis, viz. 1. Tire
longicornis, or hairy yellow bee, with thread-like feel¬
ers, about the length of its body. 2. The tumulorum,
or black bee, with yellow feet and jaws, and thread¬
like feelecs, about the length of the body. 3. The cla-
vicornis, or black bee, with clavated feelers, about the
length of its body, and two yellow belts round the belly.
4. The centuncularis, or black bee, having its belly co¬
vered with yellow down. The nefts of this fpecies are
made of rofe-leaves curioufly plaited in the form of a
matt or quilt. 5. The cineraria, or black bee, with a
white hairy breaft, and'a greenifh belt round the belly.
The above five fpecies are all natives of Europe. 6. The
mexicana, is a brownifti bee, with bluifh wings, and ve¬
ry large. It is a native of America. 7. The carbona-
ria, or reddifti bee, with darkifti green wings ; it is about
the fize of the mellefica, or common honey-bee, and is
found in Africa. 8. The retufa, or black bee, has its
legs covered with down. 9. The rufa, or brownifli bee,
with a white front and dufky belly. 10. The bicornis,
has two horns on its front, a black head, and a hairy
belly. 11. The maxillofa, or black bee, with promi¬
nent jaws, fliort feelers, and a cylindrical belly, covered
with a yellow down. 12. The truncorum, or black
fmooth bee, with a white hairy front, and a yellow bel¬
ly edged with white. 13. The florifomnis, or black
bee, with a cylindrical incurvated belly, having two
tooth-like protuberances at the anus, and a kind of
prickles on the hind-legs. This bee fleeps in flowers.
14. The dentata, or Alining green bee, with black,
wings, and a kind of teeth on. the hind thighs. The
tongue of this bee is almoft as long as its body. The
nine laft fpecies are all natives of Europe. 15. The
cordata, or fliining green bee, with a belly fliaped like a
heart, and wings of a glais-colour. It is a native of
the Indies. 16. The helvola, is an oblong reddifli bee*
with a white belly. 17. The fabriciana, or black bee,
with an iron-coloured belly, and two yellow fpots.
18. The fuccinfta, has a yellow hairy breaft, a black
belly, and four white belts. The laft three are natives
of Europe. 19. The zonata, is brownifti and hairy,
with four bluilh belts on the belly. It is a native of the
Indies. 20. The xnea, is hairy,, and of a copper colour.
21. The cxrulefcens, is brownifti and hairy, with a
greenilh belly, margined with white indentations.
22.The mellefica, or honey-bee, is furniflied with dow¬
ny hairs, a dufky-coloured breaft, and brownifti belly; the
tibix of the hind-legs are ciliated, and tranfverfely ftreak-
ed on the infide. Each foot of this bee terminates in two
hooks, with their points oppefite to each other; in the mid¬
dle of tfcefe hooks there is a little thin appendix, which,,
when unfolded, enables the bees to faften themfelves to-
glafs or the moft poliihed bodies. This part they likewife
employ for collefting the fmall particles of wax which
they find upon flowers, and for tranfmitting them to the.
middlemoft joint of the two hinder feet, in which there is
a little cavity, in the fhape of a narrow fpoon, furrounded
by a number of hairs. When they have loaded their
thighs with wax, they immediately carry it off to the
hive.
a p i ( g;
hive. The queen and drones, who never coltecd wax in
this manner, have no fuch cavity. The belly of the bee
is divided into fix rings or jour.s. In the infide of the
belly there is a final! bladder or r.efervoir, in which the
honey is collected, after having palled through the pro-
bofcis and a narrow pipe which runs through the head
and breallr. This bladder, when full of honey, is about
the fize of a fmall pea. The fting is fituate at the extre^
"mity of the belly: It is a horny fubltance, and hollow
■within, for tranfmitting the venomous liquor, which Iks
in a bladder near the anus, into the wound. The fting
is generally left in the wound, and frequently draws af¬
ter it the poifon-bag.
As the meliefica, or honey-bee, is both an ufeful irc-
fe<!t, and endowed with peculiar inftinfts, we lhall give
‘a particular account of its nature and oeconomy.
The queen is the only female in a hive; Ihe is” di*
llinguilhed from the others by being taller, more of an
oblong figure, and having ten joints in each feeler. She
is like wife furnifhed with a fting. Thefuci, males, or
drones, are C( ramonly about 1*600 in a hive ; they have
ho fting, and their.feelers have eleven joints. The o-
peraria;, fpadones, or working bees, are fometimes
20,000 ifi a hive ; they have fifteen joints in their feel¬
ers, and are armed with ftings.
After a new fwarm is formed, the bees immediately
begin to form their cells. They begin their work at the
upper part of the hive,-and continue it downwards, and
from one fide to the other. It is not eafy-'to difeover
the particular manner of dieir working; for, notwith--
Handing the many contrivances tiled for this purpofe,
there are fuch numbers in continual motion, and fucceed
6ne another with fuch rapidity, that nothing but confu-
fioa appears to the fight. Some of them however have
been obferved carrying pieces of wax in their talons, and
running to the places where they are at work, upon the
combs. Tilde they fallen to the work by means of the
fame talons. Each bee is employed but a very fhort
time in this way; but there is fogt-eat a number of them
that go On in a conftant fuccellion, that the comb increa*
fes very perceptibly. Befides thefe, there are others
that run about beating the work with their wings and
the hinder'pan of their body, probably with -a view to'
make it more firm and folrd.
The order they obferve in the conftrudtion of their
<fells is this : They begin with laying the bafis, which is
compofed of three rhombus’s dr lozenges. They build
firft one of the rhombus’s, and draw faces on two of'its
tfdes; they then add a feeond rhombus to the firft in a
certain inclination, and draw two new faces on its two
fideS ; and, laft of all, they add a third rhombus to the1
two firft, and raife on the two external fides of this
rhombus two other faces ; which completes the cell of an1
hexagonal figure.
Whiift parr of the bees are occupied in forming the-
Cells, others are employed in perfecting ahd poliihing'
fhofe that are new-modelled. This operation is perform-5
e'd by their talons, taking off ever^ thing that is rough-
Cnd uneven. Thefe pohlhers are not fo defultory in-
their’operations asufiofe that make-the cells; they work-
tbng a£d'dili£e»:lyy never intermitting then-labour, ax-
p ) API
cepting to carry out of the cell the particles of wax
Which they take off in polifhing.: Thefe particles are eot
allowed to be loft ; others are ready to receive them from
the poliftiers, and to employ them in fome other part df
the work.
Each comb has two rows of cells oppofite to each o-
ther, which have their common bafes.' The thicknef$_
of every comb is fomething lefs than an inch, and the
depth of the cells is about five lines. Almoft all the
combs are built with cells of this fize; except a fmall
number of a larger kind, that are deftined for the worms
that produce drones.
The bafes of all the combs are placed at fuch a di-
ftance from one another, that, when the cells are finilhed,
there is only a fpace left fufficient for the paifage of twft
bees abreaft. Thefe combs are not continued from top
to bottom, but are often interrupted, and have openings
from onepafTage to another, which give a more eafy and
fliorter communication.
T he queen-bee is generally concealed in the moft fe-
cret part of the hive, and is never vifibte but when file
lays her eggs in fuch combs as are expofed to fight.
When Ihe does appear, Ihe is always attended'by.ten or
a dozen of the common fort, who form a kind of retinue,
and follow her where-ever fire goes with a fedate and
grave tread. Before Ihe lays her eggs, fhe examines the
cells where /he defigns to lay them; and if ihe finds that
they contain neither honey, wax, nor any embrio, fhe
introduces the pofterior part of her body into a cell,
and fixes to the bottdm of it a final! white egg, which is
compofed of a thin white membrane, full of a whiti/h
liquqr. In this manner fhe goes on, till fhe fills as many
cells as Ihe has eggs to lay, which are generally many
ehaufinds. After the eggs lie four, days in the celisi,
they appear in the form of fmall caterpillars ^ and gene¬
rally lie twifted round, fo that the two extremities toueik
each other. The bees then fupply them with a little ho¬
ney for food, the quantity of which they incr’eafe till th&
eighth day from the birth.of the caterpillar. After this,
die bees difeover no more care about their young; but
ftop up the' mouths of the. cells with wax. The embrros
lie in this ftate twelve days, during which time they-un¬
dergo fufprifing changes. T hey firft change their fituatiodL
in the cells, and inftead of being, rolled up, they extends
themfclves along, and place their heads towards the
riiouth of the cell; after this, tlie head of the worm be¬
gins to have a fmall extenfion, which is the rudiment bf
the probofeis: Upon the head there is like wife a blucic
point, and at a little diftance’from this point, a blaekh
ftreak upon the back: The firft lineaments of the feeii.
likewife appear; but they are very final!. Afterthe head,
is formed, and the probofeis lengthened^ all the other-
parts difplay themfelves fucceffively.; fo that the whole
worm or embrio is changed int^ aa aureiia. or nymph^.
which is the fly almoft perfeft, except that it is yet white
and fqft, and wants that cruft with which it is afterwards
covered. By this transformation the worm is ftrippedof*
a white thin pellicle, which adheres to the fides of the
cfcll. The young bee being ftripped of this pellicle, a®d
all the parts being unfolded by degrees, and changed
through fiuoeefllve -colours-Aom yellow t« blacky- atri'ies
API ( 333 ) API
at perFeftion on the twentieth day; when fhe cuts, with
her jaws or talons, the covering of wax upon the mouth
of the cells, and iflues out. When the young bees firfl
get out of the cell, they appear drowfy, but foon acquire
agility and command of their members; for they have
often been obferved to go to the fields, and return loaded
with wax the fame day that they iffued from the cells.
As foon as a young bee quits its cell, one of the old
ones takes off the wax-cover, and kneads and employs
the wax for fome other purpofe: Another of them repairs
and cleanfes the cell, removing the pellicle and other
fordes which was left by the young one.
It was obferved above, that bees colled their wax
from the pollen or farina of flowers, and carry it to the
hive. When they arrive there, they fupport themfelves
on their two fore-feet, and make a buzz with their wings,
thereby warning the bees within to aflifl: them to unload;
which they inftantly do, each taking a fmall portion of
the wax from the hinder-legs of the loaded ones, till the
whole be exhaufted. The wax is not only employed for
the original conftrudion of the combs and cells, but is
collected and laid up in conliderable quantities for the
purpofes of repairing any damage that may happen to the
works during the winter, when they have no opportuni¬
ty of colleding it in the fields, and likewife to flop up
the mouths of the cells when full of honey or embrios.
Bees have often been obferved to dilute their wax, when
too hard, by means of fome liquor or faliva which they
emit upon it, in order to render it foft and pliable for
ufe.
The honey, as well as the wax, is colleded from
flowers. The honey, however, is extraded from a diffe¬
rent part of the flower. In the flowers of many plants
there are nedaria, or nedariferous glands, which fecret
from the plant a pure tranfparent liquor, refembling vir¬
gin-honey both in tafle and appearance, excepting that
it is thinner. Perhaps all the change that this nedarife¬
rous juice undergoes, by being fucked up, and depofited
in the honey-bag of the bee, is, that the more watery parts
may prbbably be abforbed during the fmall time it remains
there. The heat of the hive, after it is depofited in the
cells, will ftill evaporate more of the watery parts, and
bring it to the confiftence of honey.
When a bee is colleding honey, fhe no fooner lights
upon a flower than fhe extends her probofcis, and fucks
up what fhe can find: If fhe cannot find a fufficient
quantity to fill her bag in one flower, fhe immediately
flies to another, and thus goes on till fhe has filled it.
She then retires to the hive, goes to the cell, difgorges
the honey, and again returns to the fields in quefl: of
more. As the quantity carried home by one bee is but
fmall, it requires the labour of many to fill a cell with
honey. When the cells are full, they are immediately
clofed up with wax, if defigned for winter-provifion; if
not, they are allowed to remain open for the common
nourifhment of the fwarm.
Befides thefe capital inflinds of bees, they are pof-
fefled of others, fome of which are equally neceflary for
their prefervation and happinefs. They anxioufly pro¬
vide againft the entrance of infeds into the hive, by glu¬
ing up with wax the fmalleft holes in the; fkep. Some
Vox. I. No. 14. t 3
Hand as centinels at the mouth of the hive, to prevent in
feds of any kind from getting it. But if a fnaii, or other
large infed, fhould get in, notwithffanding all refiftance,
they fling it to death, and then cover it over with a coat of
wax, to prevent the bad fmell or maggots which might
proceed from the putrefadion of fuch a large animal.
Bees are feldom overtaken with bad weather; they
feem to be warned of its appearance by fome particular
feeling. Cold is a great enemy to them. To defend
themfelves againft: its effeds during a cold winter, they
croud together in the middle of the hive, and buzz a-
bout, and thereby excite a warmth which is often per¬
ceptible by laying the hand upon the glafs-windows of
the hive.- They feem to underftand one another by the
motions of their wings. When the queen wants to quit
the hive, fhe gives a little buzz, and all the others im¬
mediately follow her example, and retire along with her.
They expell the drones before the winter, To that, of
feveral hundreds in a hive, not one can be feen after the
month of Odober. This expulfion always occafions a
furious battle between the drones and the working bees;
but the latter being greatly fuperior in number, always
prevail.
With regard to Hives, thofe made of flraw are the
beft, on many accounts: They are not liable to be over¬
heated by the rays of the fun; they keep out cold better
than wood or any other materials; and the cheapnefs
renders the purchafe of them eafy. As the ingenious
Mr Wildman’s hives are reckoned to be of a preferable
conflrudion to any other, we fhall give an account of
them in his own words.
“ My hives,” fays he, “ are feven inches in height,
“ and ven in width. The fides are upright, fo that the
“ top and bottom are of the fame diameter. A hive
“ holds nearly a peck. In the upper row of flraw, there
“ is a hoop of about half an inch in breadth, to which
“ are nailed five bars of deals, full a quarter of an inch
“ in thicknefs, and an inch and quarter wide, and half
“ an inch afunder from one another; a narrow fhort
“ bar is nailed at each fide, half an inch diflant from
“ the bars next them, in order to fill up the remaining
“ parts of the circle ; fo that there are in all feven bars
“ of deal, to which the bees fix their combs. The fpace
“ of half an inch between the bars allows a fufficient and
“ eafy paflage for the bees from one hive to another. In
“ order to give great fleadinefs to the combs, fo that, up-
“ on moving the hive, the c»mbs may not fall off, or
“ incline out of their direftion, a flick fhbuld be .run
“ through the middle of the hive, in a direftion direftly
“ a crofs the bars, or at right angles with them. When
“ the hives are made, a piece of wood fhould be worked
“ into the lower row of flraw, long enough to allow
“ a door for the bees, of four inches in length, and
“ half an inch in height.
“ The proprietor of the bees fhould provide himfelf
“ with feveral flat covers of flraw, worked of the fame
“ thicknefs as the hives, and a foot in diameter, that fo
it may be of the fame width as the outfide of the hives.
“ Before the cover is applied to the hive, a piece of
“ clean paper, of the fize of the top of the hive, fhould
“ be laid over it, and a coat of. cow-dung, which is the
4 P “ leaft
API ( 334
'leaft apt to crack of any cement eaf:iy to be obtained,
(hould be laid' all round the circumference of the hive.
Let the cover be laid upon this, and made faft to the
hive with a packing-needle and pack-thread, fo that
neither cold nor vermin may enter.
“ Each hive Ihould ftaml Angle on a piece of deal, or
other wood, fomewhat larger than the bottom of the
hive : That part of the (land which is at the mouth of
the hive ihould projed fome inches, for the bees to reft
on when they return from the field. This ftand fhould
be fupported upon a Angle poft, two and a half feet
high; to which it ftiould be icrewed very fecurely,
that high winds, or other accidents, may not blow
down both ftand and hive. A quantity of foot mixed
with barley-chaff ‘ihould be ftrewed on the ground
round the poft, which will effectually prevent ants,
ftugs, and other vermin, from rifing up to the hive.
The foot and chaff Ihould, from time to time, be te-
newed as it is blown or waflred away: Though, as it
is fneitered by the ftand, it remains a confiderable time,
efpecially if care be taken that no weeds rife through
it. Weeds, indeed, ftiould not be permitted to rife
near the hive, for they may give flielter to vermin
which may be hurtful to the bees.
“ The ftands for bees ftiould be four yards afunder;
or, if the apiary will not admit of fo much, as far a-
funder as may be, that the bees of one hive may not
interfere with thofe of another hive, as is fometimes
the cafe, when the hives are near one another, or on
the fame ftand: For the bees, miftaking their own
hives, light fometimes at the wrong door, and a fray
enfues, in which one or more may lofe their lives.
“ The perfon who intends to erecft an apiary, fliould
purchafe a proper number of hives at the latter part of
the year, when they are cheapeft. The hives ftiould
be full of combs, and well ftored with bees. The
purchafer ftiould examine the combs, in order to know
the age of the hives. The combs of that feafon are
white, thofe of the former year are of a darkifti yel¬
low; and where the combs are black, the hives fliould
be rejefted, becaufe old hives are moft liable to ver¬
min and other accidents.
“ If the number of hives wanted were not purchafed in
the autumn, it will be neceflary to remedy this neglecft
after the feverity of the cold is part in the fpring. At
this feafon, bees which are in good condition will get
into the fields early in the morning, return loaded,
enter boldly, and do not come out of the hive in bad
weather; for when they do, this indicates they are
in great want of provifions. They are alert on the
Jeaft difturbance, and by the loudnefs of their humming
we judge of their ftrength. They preferve their hives
free from all filth, and are ready to defend it againft
every enemy that approaches.
“ The fummer is an improper time for buying bees,
becaufe the heat of the weather foftens the wax, and
thereby renders the combs liable to break, if they are
not very well fecured. The honey too being then
thinner than at other times, is more apt to run out
of the cells; which is attended with a double difad-
vaatage, namely,, the lofa of the honey, and the daub-
) API
ing of the bees, whereby many of them may be de-
ftroyed. A firft and ftrong fwarm may indeed be
purchafed; and, if leave can be obtained, pei mined
to ftand in the fame garden till the autumn; but if
“ leave is not obtained, it may be carried away in the
“ night after it has been hived.
“ I fuppofe, that in the ftocks purchafed, the bees
“ are in hives of the old conftruttian. The only direc-
“ tion here neceflary is, that the firft fwarm from thefe
“ ftocks Ihould be put into one of my hives ; and that
“ another of my hives ftiould in a few days be put under
“ the old ftock, in order to prevent its fwarming again.’*
Bees never fwarm till the hive be too much croudcd
by the young brood. It is this circumftance that indu¬
ces a part of the hive to think of finding a more commo¬
dious habitation. With this view they Angle out a queen
from among the young, with whom they take wing;
and where-ever ftie leads, the reft follow. They firft
begin to fwarm in May, or in the end of April, but ear¬
lier or later according to the warmth of the feafon.
They feldom fwarm before ten in the morning, and fel-
dom later than three in the afternoon. We may know
when they are about to fwarm, by clufters of them hang¬
ing on the outfide of the hive, and by the drones appear¬
ing abroad more than ufual: But the moft certain fign is,
when the bees refrain from flying into the fields, though
the feafon be inviting. Juft before they take flight, there
is an uncommon filence in the hive; after this, as foon as
one takes flight, they all follow. Before the fubfequent
fwarmings, there is a great noife in the hives, which is
fuppofed to be occafioned by a conteft whether the young
or the old queen (hould go out. When the bees of a
fwarm fly too high, they are made to defeend lower, by
throwing handfuls of fand or dnft among them, which
they probably miftake for rain. For the fame purpofe,
it is ufual to beat on a kettle or frying-pan: This prac¬
tice may have taken its rife from obferving that thunder
or any great noife prompts fuch bees as are in the fields
to return home.
When the bees fettle in fwarming, they colleiEF’them-
felves in a heap, and hang to each other by their feet.
When they fettle in two feparate divifions, it generally
proceeds from there being two queens in the fwarm. In
that cafe, each duller of them may be hived feparately ;
or one of the queens muft be deftroyed, to prevent the
commotions which the bees would raife in order to de-
ftroy her. All the motions and fettling of a fwarm are
diredted by the queen. If Ihe be weak, and fall to the
ground, the whole fwarm fall down along with her; if
ftie reft upon a branch of a tree, they accompany her;
and if the queen be caught into a hive, the fwarm will
inftantly follow her. When a fwarm is too few in num¬
ber for a hive, another may be added, provided the queen
belonging to it be deftroyed. If that precaution be not
taken, a battle will enfue, in which not only one of the
queens is killed, but frequently a great many of the
working bees.
Several methods of taking the wax and honey, with¬
out deftroying the bees, have of late been p radii fed, Mr
Wildman’s feems both to be the eafieft and fafeft: “ Re-
“ move (fays he) the hive from which you would take
“ the
API (335
«« the wax and honey into a room, into which admit but
“ little light, that it may appear at firft to the bees as if
«t it was late in the evening. Gently invert the hive,
“ placing it between the frames of a chair, or other
fteady fupport, and cover it with an empty hive, keep-
“ ing that fide of the empty hive raifed a little which is
next the window, to give the bees fufficient light to
“ get up into it. While you hold the empty hive, flea-
“ dily lupported on the edge of the full hive, between
“ your fide and your left arm, keep linking with the
other hand all round the full hive from top to bottom,
“ in the manner of beating a drum, fo that the bees
*e may be frightened by the continued noife from all
** quarters ; and they will in confequence mount out of
the full hive into the empty one. Repeat the ftrokes
“ rather quick than flrong round the hive, till all the
“ bees are got out of it, which in general will be in a-
‘c bout five minutes. It is to be obferved, that the fuller
“ the hive is of bees, the fooner they will have left it.
“ As foon as a number of them have got into the empty
“ hive, it fhould be raifed a little from the full one,
“ that the bees may not continue to run from the one to
** the other, but rather keep afcending upon one another.
“ So foon as all the bees are out of the full hive, the
“ hive in which the bees are muft be placed oh the ftand
“ from which the other hive was taken, in order to
** receive the abfent bees as they return from the fields.
“ If this is done early in the feafon, the operator
“ fiiould examine the royal cells, that any of them that
“ have young in them may be faved, as well as the combs
“ which have young, bees in them, which fiiould on no
“ account be touched, though, by fparing them, a good
“ deal of honey ftiould be left behind. Then take out
the other combs with a long, broad, and pbable knife,,
fuch as the apothecaries make ufe of. The combs
4< fiiould be cut from the fides and r.own, as clean
“ as pofiible, to lave the further labour of the bees,
“ who muft lick up the honey fpilt, and remove eve-
•* ry remains of wax; and then the fides of the hive
** fiiould be fcraped with a table-fpoon, to clear away
“ what was left by the knife. During the whole of this
‘‘ operation, the hive Ihould be placed inclined to the
« fide from which the combs are taken, that the honey
“ which is fpilt may not daub the remaining combs. If
“ fome combs were unavoidably taken away, in which
“ there are young bees, the parts of the combs in which
“ they are Ihould be returned into the hive, and fecured
“ by fticks, in the beft manner pollible. Plkce the hive
“ then for fome time upright, that any remaining ho-
“ ney may drain out. If the combs are built- in a di-
** redtion oppofite to the entrance, or at right angles
“ with it, the combs which are the furtheft from the
“ entrance Ihould be preferred, becaufe there they are
** beft ftored with honey, and’have the feweft young bees
u in them.
“ Having thus finiftied taking the wax and honey,,
“ the next bufinefs is to return the bees to their old
“ hive ; and for this purpcfe place a table, covered
u with a clean cloth, near the ftand, and giving the.
hive in which the bees are a fudden ftiake, at the fame
“ time linking it pretty forcibly, the bees will be lhaken
) API
on the doth. Put their own hive over them imme-
“ diately, raifed a little on one fide, that the bees may
“ the more eafily enter; and when all are entered, place
“ it on the ftand as before. If the hive in which the
“ bees are, be turned bottom uppermoft, - and their own
“ hive be placed over it, the bees will immediately afcend
“ into it, efpecially if the lower hive is ftruck on the-
“ fides to alarm them.
“ The chief objedt of the bees during the fpring and
“ beginning of fummer, is the propagation of their kind.
“ Honey during that time is not collefted in fuch quanti-
“ ties as it is afterwards : and on this account it is
“ fcarcely worth while to rob a hive before the latter
“ end of June; nor is it fafe to do it after the middle
“ July, left rainy weather prevent their reftoring the
“ combs they have loft, and laying in a ftock of honey
“ fufficient for the winter, unlefs there is a chance of
“ carrying them to a rich pafture.”
Mr Wildman, by his dexterity in the management of
bees, has lately fiyprifed the whole kingdom. He can
order a fwarm to light where he pleafes, almoft inftanta-
neoufly; he can order them to fettle on his head, then
remove them to his hand;, command them to depart and
fettle on a window, table, at pleafure. We ffiall
fubjoin his method of performing thefe feats, in his own
words : “ Spe&ators (fays he) wonder much at my at-
“ taching bees to d fferent parts of my body, and wilh?
“ much to be pofiefled of the feerer means by which I
“ dot!. I have unwarily promifed to reveal it; and am.
“ therefore under a neceffity of performing that promife :
“ but while I declare, that their fear and the queen are
“ the chief agents in thefe operations, I muft warn my
“ readers that there, is an art. neceflary to perform it,.
“ namely pradtice, which I cannot convey to them, and.
“ which they cannot fpeedily attain; yet till this art is •
" attained, the deftruftion of-many hives of bees muft
“ be the confequence; as every one will find on their
“ firft attempt to perform it.
“ Long experience has taught me,- that"as foon as I
“ turn up a hive, anft.give it fome taps on-the fides and-
“ bottom, thfe queen immediately appears, to know the
ct caufe of this alarm ; but foon retires again among her .
“ people. Being accuftomed to fee her fo often, I readily
“ perceive her at firft glance; and long; praiftice has en-
“ abled me to feize her inftantly, with a tendernefs that"
“ doesnot in the leaft endanger her perfon. This is of
“ the utmoft importance; for the leaft injury done to her
“ brings immediate deftrutfion to the hive, if you have
“ not a fpare queen- to put in her place, as I have too
“ often experienced in my firft attempts. -When pof- -
“ fefted of her, I can, without injury to her, or exci-
ting that degree of refentment^that may tempt her "
“ to fting me, flip her into my other hand, and, return-
“ ing the* hive to its place, hold her there, -till the bees
miffing her, are all on wing, and in the utmoft confu--
“ fion. When the bees are thus di'fttefted, I place the
“ queen where-ever I would have the bees to fettle. The.
“ moment a few of them difeover her;, they give notice.
“ to thofe near them, and thofe to the reft; the know-
ledge of which foon- becomes fo general, that in a few
“ minutes they all collect themfelves round her; and are;.
— f6.
API ( 33<$
“ fo happy in having recovered this foie fupport of their
“ ftate, that they will long remain quiet in their fituation. “
“ Nay, the fcent of her body is fo attrattive of them, “
“ that the flighted: touch of her, along any place or fub- “
“ ftance, will attach the bees to it, and induce them to “
“ purfue any path {he takes. “
“ My attachment to the queen, and my tender regard “
“ for her precious life, makes me moft ardently wifh that “
“ I might here clofe the detail of this operation, which, “
“ I am afraid, when attempted by unfkilful hands, will “
“ coft many of their lives ; but my love of truth forces “
“ me to declare, that, by pradtice,. I am arrived at lb “
“ much dexterity in the management of her, that I can, “
“ without hurt to her, tie a thread of filk round her “
,e body, and thus confine her to any part in which fhe “
“ might not naturally wifh to remain ; or I fometimes «e
“ ufe the lefs dangerous way of clipping her wings on “
“ one fide. “
“ I {hall conclude this account in the manner of C.
“ Furius Crefinus, who being cited before the Curule “
ct Edile and an aflembly of the people, to anfwer to a “
“ charge of forcery, founded on his reaping much larger
“ crops from his fmall fpot of ground, than his neigh- “
“ hours did from their extenfive fields, produced his “
“ ftrong implements of hufbandry, his well-fed oxen, “
“ and a hale young woman, his daughter; and, point- “
“ ing to them, faid, Thefe, Romans, are my inftru- “
“ ments of witchcraft; but I cannot {hew you my toil, ««
“ my fweats, and anxious cares. So may I fay, Thefe, «
“ Britons, are my inftruments of witchcraft ; but I «
“ cannot Ihew you my hours of attention to this fubjeft, “
“ my anxiety and care for thefe ufeful infefts; nor can
“ I communicate to you my experience, acquired during «
a courfe of years.” «
We Ihall conclude this hiftory of the Honey-bee “
with the following experiments for preventing a wafte of “
honey, and preferving the lives of bees during the win- “
ter, communicated by a gentleman.near the banks of the “
Tweed. “ I have tried feveral experiments for prefer- “
“ ving the lives of bees during the winter; and tho’ «
“ in general with little fuccefs, yet I think I have reafon “
“ to continue, and advife others to follow, what I prac- “
“ tifed lad winter. The method is very fimple, and not “
“ expenfive, for it is no other than keeping the bees in a •“
“ cold and dark place.
“ My. reafon for trying this experiment, was my ha- F
“ ving obferved, that a certain degree of cold brought
“ upon the bees a ftupor; and that the fame degree of
“ cold continued, kept them in the fame ftate, till they
were brought into a warmer fituation, which imme-
“ diately reftored their life and vigour #.
* This obfervation is confirmed by what Mr White
fays, That lees which Jland on the north-fide of a build¬
ing, whofe height intercepts the fun's beams all the •win¬
ter, •will •wafte lefs of their proviftons, almoft by half
than others which ftand in the fun; for, feldom coming
forth, they eat little, and yet in the fpring are as for¬
ward to work and fwarm as thofe which had twice as
much honey in the autumn before. See the Revd. Mr
White’s method of preferving bees. Third edition.
) API
“ With this view I kept two hives {hut up in a dark cold
out-houfe, from the middle of September to the middle
of April, without ever letting them fee light: Upon
their being fet out in the warmer air, they recovered im¬
mediately, and {hewed an appearance of more ftrength
than the hives did which had been kept out in the u-
fual way. This appearance of ftrength continued du¬
ring the fummer, and they multiplied fafter than I had
ever obferved them do before. They were rather
later in fwarming this year than in former fummers;
but the fame was the cafe with many hives in this
neighbourhood: and even though this ftiould always
happen, yet I think other advantages will do more
than overbalance it. Could I go into the country ear¬
ly in the fpring, to look after the bees myfelf, I
would bring them into the open air fome weeks fooner,
carefully attend to the changes of the weather, and
Ihut up the doors of the hive on a bad day: but this
degree of care can fcarcely be expedted from fervants
and gardeners, who have many other things to attend
to.
“ I intend to have four hives put up this feafon, in the
coldeft dark place I can find ; and as an ice-houfe is the
fteadieft and greateft cold we have, one or two of my
friends who have ice-houfes, have promifed to put a
hive upon the ice. By all accounts, the cold in Sibe¬
ria does not kill the bees there; and in Ruffia, where
the winters are extremely fevere, bees produce much
honey : fo I think there is not any danger to be
feared from any degree of cold we can expofe the
bees to.
“ If fuccefs continues to attend this experiment of
keeping the bees afleep all the winter and fpring, with¬
out confirming their honey, a great point will be gain¬
ed ; efpecially as Mr Wildman has taught us to take
the honey without killing the bees: for, by what I
have obferved in this country, our-bees are loft chiefly
by being tempted to go out in a clear fun in the fpring,
though perhaps a frofty wind blows, and chills them,
fo as to prevent their being able to return to the hive;
or an early warmth induces the queen to lay eggs, and
a number of young bees are bred, which confume the
little provifion left, before the fields can afford any
fupply.”
Explanation P l a t e XXIII.
igure i. Is the queen bee. 2. Is the drone, 3. Is
the working bee. 4. Reprefents the bees hanging to
each other by the feet, which is the method of taking
their repofe. 5. The probofcis or trunk, which is one
of the principal organs of the bees, wherewith they
gather the honey and take their nouriftiment. 6. One
of the hind-legs of a working-bee, loaded with wax.
7. A comb, in which the working bees are bred.
The cells are the fmalleft of any. Two of them
have the young bees inelofed. A royal cell is fufpendi
cd on one fide. 8. A comb in which the drones are
bred, being larger than the former; the young drones
being included in feveral of them ; with two royal cells
fufpended on the fide. 9. A fimilar comb, in which
the royal cell is fixed in the middle of the comb; and
feveral common cells are facrificed tp ferve as a bafis
and
Plate-XHU.
y>
API ( 337 ) A P O
and fupport to it. In general, the royal cells are
fufpended on the fide of a comb, as in fig. 7, 8. To
the fide of fig. 9. two royal cells are begun, when they
referable pretty much the cup in which an acorn lies.
The other royal cells have the young queens included
in them.
• The 23d fpecies is the apis cunicularia, or hairy bee,
with an iron-coloured breaft, and yellow belly. This
fpecies is very like the mellefica; they build their nefts
in dry fandy places. 24. The variegata; the breaft and
belly are variegated with white and black fpots; the legs
are of an iron colour. It is a native of Europe. This
fpecies fleep in the geranium phaeum, or fpotted crane’s-
bill. 2J. The roftrata is diftinguifhed by the up¬
per lip being infledted, and of a conical ftiape, and by
the belly being invefted with bluilh belts. They build
their nefts in high fandy grounds, and there is but one
young in each neft. 26. The argillofa, or iron-colour¬
ed bee, has an infledted roltrum, and a crooked belly, with
one joint. It is a native of Surinam. 27. The lago-
poda is of a greyilh colour, with an emarginated anus,
28. The manicata, or black bee, with hairy fore-legs;
the belly is fpotted with yellow; and the anus is triden-
tated. 29. The quatuor-dentata, is of a dulky colour,
with five white belts on the belly, and the anus has four
teeth-like protuberances ; each intermediate tooth is
forked. The laft three fpecies are natives of Europe.
30. The fafciata has a yellowilh back, and a black belt
round the edge of each wing ; the breaft is white; the
belly is variegated with black and white; the legs are
covered with black hair; and the feelers are green. It
is a native of the Cape of Good Hope. 31. Hie bar-
bara, or black bee, with a yellow edging round the
breaft, is about the fize of an ant ; the feelers are like
threads. It is a native of Barbary. 32. The conica,
or yellow bee, with an acute conical belly, and the mar¬
gins of the joints or fegments white it dwells in cavi¬
ties of the earth. 33. The annulata, or black bee,
with a black front, and black rings round the legs.
34. The ruficornis has two iron-coloured fpots on the
breaft and feelers; the belly is fpotted with yellow.
35. The ferrugmea, or fmooth black bee, with the feel¬
ers, mouth, belly, and feet of an iron colour. This is
a fmall bee, and fuppofed to be of an intermediate kind
between the bee and wafp. The laft three are natives of
Europe. 36. The ichneumonea; the roftrum or fnout
is an eredt horn; the belly is petiolated and black; and
the breaft is interfperfed with fhining gold-coloured fu¬
tures or indented lines; the antennse are green. It is a
native of America. 37. The cariofa is a yellowilh hairy
bee; and the feet and front are of a bright yellow co¬
lour. It builds in the rotten trees of Europe. 38. The
violaceais a red bee, and very hairy, with bluifh wings.
It is a native of Europe. The violacea is faid to perfo¬
rate trees, and hollow them out in a longitudinal diredtion;
they begin to build -their cells at the bottom of thefe
holes, and depofite an egg in each cell, which is compo-
fed of the farina of plants and honey, or a kind of glu¬
ten. 39. The caffra is alfo red, and covered with hair ;
the hind part of the breaft and fore-part of the belly are
Von. I. No. 15.
yellowith. 40. The Carolina is a red hairy bee, with
the upper part of the belly yellow. It is a native of
Carolina. 41. The terreftris is black and hairy, with
a white belt round the breaft, and a white anus. It
builds its neft very deep in the earth. 42. The hor-
torum is a black hairy bee, with the fore part of the
breaft and belly yellow. 43. The pratorum, or black
hairy bee, with the fore part of the breaft yellow, and
a blackifh anus. 44. The lapidaria, or red hairy bee,
with a yellow anus. It builds in holes of rocks.
45. The fylvarum, or pale hairy bee, with a black
belt on the breaft, and a reddilh anus. 46. The muf-
corum, or yellow hairy bee, with a white belly. It
builds in mofly grounds. 47. The hypnorum, or
yellow hairy bee, with a black belt on the belly, and
a white anus. 48. The lucorum, or yellow hairy
bee, with a white anus. The laft eight fpecies are all
natives of Europe. 49. The brafilianorum, cy pale-
red hairy bee, with the bafis of the thighs black.
This is a very large bee, every where covered with a
teftaceous fkin. It is a native of America. 50. The
acervorum is red and hairy, and builds below ground.
51. The fubterranea is red and hairy, with a dulky
anus ; it likewife builds below ground. 52. The fu-
rinamenfis is a black hairy bee, with the whole belly,
excepting the firft joint or fegment, yellow. It is a
native of Surinam. 53. The seftuans, or black hairy
bee, with a yellow breaft. 54. The tropica, or black
hairy bee, with the hind part of the belly yellow.
The two laft are natives of the warm climates.
5 j. The alpina is a hairy bee, with a black breaft, and
yellow belly. It inhabits the mountains of Lapland.
APIUM, er Parsley, in botany, a genus of the pen-
tandria digynia clafs. The fruit is of an oval lhape
and ftreaked; the involucrum confifts of one leaf; and
the petals are infle&ed. There are only two fpecies
of apium, viz. the petrofelinum, a native of Sardi¬
nia ; and the gravedlens, a native of Britain. The
feeds of the petrofelinum are carminative, and the
root is ufed as an aperient.
APIVORUS Butea, in ornithology, a fynonime of a
fpecies of falco. SccFalco.
APLUDA, in botany, a genus of the polygamia monce-
cia clafs. The calix is a bivalved gluma; the flof-
cules of the female are feffile, and the male flofcules
are furnilhed with pedunculi; the female has no ca¬
lix ; the corolla has a double valve; there is but one
ftylus, and one covered feed. The male has three
ftamina. There are three fpecies of apluda, viz. the
mutica, ariftata, and zeugites, all natives of the
Indies.
APOBATERION, in antiquity, a valediftory fpeech
or poem made by a perfon on departing out of his own
■ country,- and addrefted to his friends or relations.
APOCALYPSE, one of the facred books of the New
Teftament, fo called from its containing revelations
concerning fevernl important doftrines of Chriftianity.
APOCARPASUM, a poifonous drug, otherwife called
carpafum.
APOCHYLISMA, in pharmacy, the fame with Rob.
See Rob.
4 APO-
t
A P O ( 338 ) A P O
AFOCOPE, among grammarians, a figure wliich cuts
ofF a letter or fyllable from the end of a word; as
ingeni for ingenii.
APOCRISIARIUS, in antiquity, an officer who deli¬
vered the meffages of the emperor. He became after¬
wards chancellor, and kept the feals. It was alfa a
title given to a bifhop’s refident at court, to the pope’s
deputy at Cenftantinople, and to the treafurer of a
monaftery.
APOCRUSTICS, in medicine, the fame with repellents.
See Repellents.
APOCRYPHAL, denotes fomething dubious, and is
more particularly applied to fuch books as are not ad¬
mitted into the canon of fcripture, being either not
acknowledged as divine, or rejeded as heretical and
fpurious. The apocryphal books, according to the
lixth article of the church of England, are to be read
for example of life and inftrudion of manners; but
it doth not apply them to eftabliffi any dodrine.
APOCYNUM, in botany, a genus of the pentandria
digynia clafs. The corolla is campaniform, or ffiaped
like a bell. There are five fpecies, all natives of A-
merica.
APODICTICAL, among philofophers, a term import¬
ing a demonftrative proof, or fyftematical method of
teaching.
APODOSIS, in rhetoric, the lame with axiofis. See
Axiosis.
APODYTERIUM, in the ancient baths, the apartments
where perfons dreffed and undreffed.
APOGEE, in aftronomy, that point of the orbit of a
planet or the fun which is fartheft from the earth.
APOLLINARIAN games, in Roman antiquity, an ap¬
pellation given to certain theatrical entertainments ce¬
lebrated annually in honour of Apollo.
APOLLINARIANS, or ApollinaPvISts, in church-
hiftory, a fed of heretics who maintained, that Jefus
Chrilt had neither a rational human foul, nor a true
body.
APOLLINARIS, in botany. See Hvoscyamus.
APOLLONIA, in antiquity, an annual feftival celebra¬
ted by the AEgialians in honour of Apollo.
Apollonia, in geography, a promontory of Africa,,
upon the coaft of Guinea, near the mouth of the ri¬
ver Mancu.
APOLOGUE, in matters of literature, an ingenious
method of conveying inflrudion by means of a feigned
relation called a moral fable.
The only difference between a parable and an apo¬
logue is, that the former being drawn from whatpaffes
among mankind, requires probability in the narration ;
whereas the apologue, being taken from the fuppofed
adions of brutes, or even of things inanimate, is not
tied down to the ftrid rules of probability. iEfop’s
fables are a model of this kind of writing.
APOLOGY, a Greek term, literally importing an ex-
cufe, or defence of fome perfon or adion.
APOMELI, among ancient phyficians, a deeodion of
honey and vinegar, muchufedas a detergent, promo¬
ter of ftool, urine, 6r.
APONEUROSIS, among phyficians, a term fometimes
ufed to denote the expanfion of a nerve or tendon in
the manner of a membrane; fometimes for the cutting
off a nerve; and, finally, for the tendon itfeif,
APONOGETON, in botany. See Zannichellia.
APOPHASIS, a figure in rhetoric, by which the ora¬
tor, fpeaking ironically, feems to wave what he would
plainly infinuate: as, Neither ’will I mention thofe
things, •which if I Jhould, you, not'withjlanding,
could neither confute nor fpeak againjl them.
APOPHLEGMATIZANTS, in pharmacy, medicines
proper to clear the head from fuperfluous phlegm,,
whether by fpitting, or by the nofe.
APOPHTHEGM, a ffiort, fententious, and inftrudive
remark, pronounced by a perfon of diftinguiffied cha-
rader. Such are the apophthegms of Plutarch, and
thofe of the ancients colleded by Lycofthenes.
APOPHYGE, in architedure, a concave part or ring of
a column, lying above or below the flat member.
The French call it le conge d'en las, or d'en haul;
the Italians, cavo di bajjo, or di fopra; and alfo, il
vivo di bajfo. The apophyge originally was no more
than the ring or ferril, at firfl: fixed on the extremities
of wooden pillars, to keep them from fplitting; which
afterwards was imitated in (tone.
APOPHYSIS, in anatomy, a procefs or protuberance of
a bone.
APOPLEXY, a diftemper in which the patient is fud-
denly deprived of all his fenfes, and of voluntary mo¬
tion. See Medicine, title, apoplexy.
APORIA, is- a figure in rhetoric, by which the fpeaker
fliews, that he doubts where to begin for the multitude
of matter,, or what to fay in fome ftrange and ambi¬
guous thing; and doth, as it were, argue the cafe with
himfelf. Thus Cicero fays, Whether he. took them
from his fellows more impudently, gave them to a
harlot more lafcivioufy, removed the?n from the Ro¬
man people more wickedly, or altered them more pre-
fumptuoufy, I cannot well declare.
APOSIOPESIS, a form of fpeech, by which the fpeaker,,
through fome affedion, as forrow, baflifulnefs, fear,,
anger, or vehemency, breaks off his fpeech before it
be all ended. A figure, when fpeaking of a thing,'
we yet feem to conceal it, though indeed we aggravate
it; or when the courfe of the fentenee begun is fo
flayed, as thereby fome part of the fentence, not be¬
ing uttered, may be underftood; as, I might fay much
more, bat madefy commands ftlence.
APOSTACY, the abandoning the true religion. The
primitive Chriflian church diftinguiflied feveral kinds
of apoftacy. The firft, of thofe who went over en¬
tirely from Chriftianity to Judaifm; the fecond, of
thofe who mingled Judaifm and Chriflianity together;
and the third, of thofe who complied fo far with the
Jews as to communicate with them in many of their
unlawful pradices, without making a formal profefiion
of their religion. But the fourth fort was of thofe
who, after having been fometimes Chriftians, volun¬
tarily relapfed into Paganifm.
APOSTASIS, in medicine, the fame with abfcefs. See
Abscess.
APOSTATE, one who deferts his religion. Among
the
A P O ( 339 ) A P P
the Romanifts, it fignifies a man who, without a legal
dilpenfation, forfakes a religious order.of which he
had made profellion. Hence,
APOSTATA capiendo, in the Englifh law, a writ that
formerly lay againll a perfon, who having entered into
fome order of religion, broke out again, and wandered
up and down the country.
A POSTERIORI, or demonftration a pojieriori. See
Demonstration.
APOSTHUME, or Apostem, the fame with abfcefs.
See Abscess.
APOSTIL, in matters of literature, the fame with a
marginal note.
APOSTLE properly fignifies a mefienger or perfon fent
by another upon fome bufinefs ; and hence, by way of
eminence, denotes one of the twelve difciples com-
miflioned by Jefus Chrift to preach the gofpel.
The apoftles are ufually reprefented with their re-
fpe&ive badges : Thus Peter is painted with the keys ;
Paul, with a fword; Andrew, with a crofs; James
the greater, with a pilgrim’s itaff; James the lefs, with-
a fuller’s pole; John, with a cup and winged ferpent
flying out of it; Bartholomew, with a knife; Philip,
with a long ftaff, the upper end of which is formed
into a crofs ; Thomas, with a lance; Matthew, with
a hatchet; Matthias, with a battle-axe; Simon, with
a faw ; and Jude, with a club.
APOSTLES See Creed.
Apostles ointment. See Ointment.
APOSTOLICI, an early feft of ChrilHans, who pre¬
tended to lead their lives in imitation of the apollles.
They condemned marriage.
AP6STROPHE, in rhetoric, a figure by which the o-
rator, in a vehement commotion, turns himfelf on all
fides, and applies to the living and dead, to angels and
to m-i, to rocks, groves, isc. Thus Adam, in Mil¬
ton’s Paradife Loft,
0 ’woods, 0 fountains, hillocks, dales, and bowers,
With other echo. See.
Apostrophe, in grammar, the contraftion of a word
by the ufe of a comma; as call'd for called, tho' for
though.
APOTACTITES, in church-hiftory, a name given to
the Apoftolici, from the (hew they made of renouncing
the world more than other men. See Apostolici.
APOTHECARY, one who pradifes the art of pharmacy.
APOTHEOSIS, in antiquity, a ceremony by which the
ancient Romans complimented their emperors and great
men, after their death, with a place among the gods.
It is deferibed as follows. After the body of the de-
ceafed had been burnt with the ufual folemnities, an
image of wax, exadlly refembling him, was placed on
an ivory couch, where it lay for leven days, attended by
the fenate and ladies of the higheft quality in mourn¬
ing ; and then the young fenators and knights bore the
bed of ftate through the via facra to the old forum,
and from thence to the campus martius, where it was
depofited upon an edifice built in form of a pyramid.
The bed being thus placed amidft a quantity of fpices
and other combuftibles, and the knights having made
a folemn procellion round the pile, the new emperor,
with-a torch in his hand,, fet lire to it, whilft an eagle.
let fly from the top of the building, jand mounting in
the air with a firebrand, was fuppofed to convey the
foul of the deceafed to heaven; and thenceforward he
was ranked among the gods.
APOTOME, in geometry, the difference between two
incommenfurable lines.
Apotome, in mufic, the difference between a greater
and leffer femi-tone, expreffedby the ratio 128 : 125.
APOZEM, in medicine, the fame with decoction. See
Decoction.
APPARATUS, a term ufed to denote a complete fet of
inftruments, or other utenfils, belonging to any artift
or machine : thus we fay a lurgeon’s apparatus.
APPARENT, in a general fenfe, fomething that is vi-
fible to the eyes, or obvious to the underftanding.
Apparent, among mathematicians and aftronomers, de¬
notes things as they appear to us, in contradiftindtion
from real or true: thus we fay, the apparent diameter,
diftance, magnitude, place, figure, he. of bodies.
Apparent heir, in Scots law, the perfon entitled to.
fucceed to the eftate of a defunft, before he is actually
entered. See Scots Law, title, Succejfion in heri¬
table rights.
APPARITION, in a general fenfe, denotes limply the.
appearance of a thing. In a more limited fenfe, it is
ufed for a fpedtre or ghoft.
APPARITOR, among the Romans, a general term to
comprehend all attendants of judges and magiftrates.
appointed to receive and execute their orders. Ap¬
paritor, in England, is a meffenger that ferves the.
procefs of a fpiritual court, or a beadle in an univer-
iity who carries the mace.
APPARURA, among old law-v/riters, fignifies furni¬
ture or tackle, particularly that belonging to a plough.,
APPAUMEE, in heraldry, denotes one hand extended
with the full palm appearing, and the thumb and fin¬
gers at full length.
APPEAL, in law, the removal of a caufe from an in¬
ferior to a fuperior court or judge, when a perfon
thinks himfelf aggrieved by the fentence of the inferi¬
or judge. Appeals lie from all the ordinary courts of
juftice to the Houfe of Lords. In ecclefiaftical caufes,
if an appeal is brought before a bilhop, it may be re¬
moved to the archbifhop; if before an archdeacon, to
the court of arches, and thence to the archbilhop; and
from the archbilhop’s court, to the king in chancery.
Appeal of maim, is the accufing one that has maimed
another.
APPEARANCE, in a general fenfe, the exterior fur-
face of a thing, or that which immediately ftrikes the .
fenfes.
APPEARANCE, in law, fignifies a defendant’s filing a
common or fpecial bail, on any procefs iflued out of a
court of judicature.
APPELLANT, in a general fenfe, one who appeals. See
Appeal.
APPELLANTS, in church-hiftory, an appellation given
to fuch of the catholic clergy, as appeal from the con-
ftitution unigenitus, to a general council.
APPELLATIVE. Words and names are either conr-
mon or proper. Common names are fuch as (land for
univerfal ideas, or a whole rank of beings, whether ge-
EerrJ
A P P ( 340 ) APS
neral or fpecial. Thefe are tailed appellatives. So
lifh, bird, man, city, river, are common names ; and
fo are trout, eel, lobfter ; for they all agree to many
individuals, and fome to many fpecies.
APPELLEE, among lawyers, the perfon againft whom
an appeal is-brought. See Appeal.
APPENDIX, in literature, a treatife added at the end
of a work, to render it more complete.
APPERCEPTION, or Adperception, a term ufed
by Leibnitz and his followers for confcioufnefs.
APPERTINANCES, the fame with appurtenances.
See Appurtenances.
APPETITE, in a general fenfe, the defire of enjoying
fome obje<5t fuppofed to be conducive to our happinefs.
Appetite, in medicine, a certain painful or uneafy fen-
fation, always accompanied with a defire to eat or
drink.
APPLAUSE, an approbation of fomething, fignified by
clapping the hands, fill praftifed in theatres.
APPLE, the fruit of the pyrus malus, or apple-tree.
See Pyrus.
Apple of the eye, a name not unfrequently given to the
pupil. See p. 289.
APPLEBY, the chief town of the county of Weftmore-
land, fituated on the river Eden, in 2° 26' W. long,
and 540 3c/ N. lat. It fends two members to parlia¬
ment.
APPLICATE, or Ordinate applicate, in geometry.
See Ordinate.
APPLICATION, in a general fenfe, is the laying two
things together, in order to difcover their agreement
or difagreement.
Application, in geometry, is ufed either for divifion,
for applying one quantity to another, whofe arreas,
but not figures, Ihall be the fame ; or, for transferring
a given line into a circle, or other figure, fo that its
ends Ihall be in the perimeter of the figure.
Application, among divines, a term ufed to fignify
the fame as imputation. See Imputation.
APPOGIATURA, in mufic, a fmall note inferted by
the pradtical mufician, between two others, at fome
diftance.
APPOINTE'E, a foot-foldier, or officer in the French
army, who receives a greater pay than others of the
fame rank, in confideration of his valour or long fer-
vice.
Appointe'e, in heraldry, the fame as aguifee: Thus
we fay, a crofs appointee, to fignify that which two
angles at the end cut off, fo as to terminate in points.
APPOINTMENT, in a genaral fenfe, the fame as af-
fignation. See Assignation. In a more reftrained
fenfe, it fignifies a penfion given by princes and noble¬
men to retain certain perfons in their fervice.
APPORTIONMENT, in law, the divifion of a rent
into parts, in the fame manner-as the land out of which
it iflues is divided.
APPOSITION, in grammar, the placing two or more
fubftantives together in the fame cafe, without any
copulative conjunftion between them ; as, Ardebat A-
lexim delicias dimini.
APPRAISING. See Apprysing.
APPREHENSION, in'logic, the firft or moft fimple
ad of the mind, whereby it perceives, or is confcious
of fome idea. See Perception, and Logic.
APPRYSING, 'in Scots law, the name of that adion
by which a creditor formerly carried off the eftate of
his debtor for payment. It is now abolilhed, and ad±
judications are appointed in place of it. See Scots
Law, title, Appryfings and Adjudications.
APPROACH, or Approaching, in a general fenfe,
the acceding or coming together of two or more things.
APPROACHES, in fortification, the works thrown up
by the befiegers, in-order to get nearer a fortrefs,
without being expofed to the enemies cannon.
APPROACHING, in gardening, the inoculating or in¬
grafting the fprig of one tree into another, without
cutting it off from the parent-tree.
Approaching, in fowling, a method of getting nearer
the birds by means of a machine, made of hoops and
boughs of trees, within which the fportfman conceals
himfelf.
APPROPRIARE communiam, in law, is to difcom-
mon, that is, to inclofe any parcel of land that before
was open and common.
Appropriare ad honorem, to bring a manor within
the liberty of an honour. See Manor, and Honour.
APPROPRIATION, in law, a fevering of a benefice
ecclefiaftical to the proper and perpetual ufe of fome
religious houfe, or dean and chapter, biflioprick, or
college; becaufe, as perfons ordinarily have no right
of fee fimple, thefe, by reafon of their perpetuity, are
accounted owners of the fee fimple; and therefore are
called proprietors. To an appropriation, after the li¬
cence obtained of the king in chancery, the confent
of the diocefan, patron, and incumbent, are neceffa-
ry, if the church be full; but, if the church be void,
the diocefan and the patron, upon the king’s licence,
may conclude.
APPROXIMATION, in arithmetic and algebra, the
coming nearer and nearer to a root, or other quantity
fought, without expefting to be ever able to find it
exadtly.
APPUI, in the menage, the fenfe of the aftion of the
bridle in the horfeman’s hand. Thus we fay, a horfe
has no appui, when he cannot fuffer the bit to bear
never fo little upon the parts of the mouth. To give
a horfe a good appui, he Ihould be galloped, and put
often back.
APPULSE, in aftronomy, the approach of a planet to¬
wards a conjundtion with the fun or any of the fixed
liars.
APRICOT, in botany, the Englifh name of the prunus
Armeniaca. See Prunus.
APRIL, in chronology, the fourth month of the year,
containing only 30 days..
A PRIORI, a kind of demonllration. See Demon¬
stration.
APRON, in gunnery, the piece of lead which covers the
touch-hole of a cannon. See Cannon..
APSIS, in allronomy, a term ufed indifferently for either
of the two points of a planet’s orbit, where it is at
the greatell or leaft diftance from the fun or earth.
Hence
a u
Hertce the line connefang thefe points is called the
line of the apjides. See Astronomy.
Apsis, among ecclefiaftical writers, denotes the inner
part of the ancient churches, anfwering to the modern
. choir. It is alfo ufed for the bifhop’s throne, and
fometimes for the ambo. See Ambo.
APSYRTUS, in botany. See Marrubium.
APTE, a fmall city of Provence, in France, fituated a-
bout 25 miles north of Aix, in 50 20' E. long, and
430 jo7 N. lat.
APTERA, the term ufed by Linnaeus for his feventh
order of infefls, comprehending fuch as have no
wings.
APTHANE, a title anciently given to the higheft de¬
grees of nobility in Scotland. See Thane.
APTOTE, among grammarians, an indeclinable noun,
or one which has no variation of cafes.
APUA, in ichthyology, an obfolete name of the gobius.
See Gobius.
APULIA, or Puglia, in geography. See Puglia.
APUS, in ornithology, the trivial name of a fpecies of
hirundo. See Hirundo.
APYCNI Suoni, in mufic, founds diflant one or more
odtaves, and yet concord.
APYCNOS, in mufic, is faid of the diatonic genus, on
account of its having fpacious intervals, in comparifon
of the chromatic and enharmonic. See Diatonic,
Chromatic, <bc.
APYREXY, among phyficians, denotes the intermillion
of a fever.
AQUA, a term frequently met with in the writings of
phyficians, chemifts, 6r. for certain medicines, or
menftruums, in a liquid form, diltinguilhed from each
other by peculiar epithets; as.
Aqua alexiteria, a water diftilled from mint, fea-worm-
wood, and angelica; and faid to be good in malignant
and peftilential cafes.
Aqua alumnofa, alum-water, a folution of water and
white vitriol; efteemed good in ulcers and cutaneous
eruptions.
Aqua fort is, a corrofive liquor, made by diftilling puri¬
fied nitre with calcined vitriol, or reAified oil of vi¬
triol, in a ftrong heat; the liquor, which rifes in fumes
red as blood, being colledted, is the fpirit of nitre or
aqua fortis; which ferves as a menftruum for dilfol-
ving of filver, and all other metals, except gold. But
if fea-falt, or fal ammoniac be added to aqua fortis, it
commences aqua regia. Aqua fortis is commonly held
to have been invented about the year 1300; though
others will have it to have been known in the time of
Mofes. It is ferviceable to refiners, in feparating
filver from gold and copper; to the workers in mofaic,
• for ftainiitg and colouring their woods ; to dyers, in
their colours, particularly fcarlet; and to other artifls,
for colouring bone and ivory. With aqua fortis book¬
binders marble the covers of books, and diamond-
cutters feparate diamonds from metalline powders. It
is alfo ufed in etching copper or brafs plates. See
Chemistry, Of the nitrous acid.
Aqua marina, a name by which the jewellers call the
beryl, on account of its fea-green colour. See Beryl.
Vol. I. No. 15. ,3
A U
Aqua merctirialis, a falution of fublimate of ihercury,
. and a little mercury, in aqua regia.
Aqua mirabilis, the wonderful water, is prepared of
cloves, galangals, cubebs, mace, cardomums, nut-
megs, ginger, and fpirit of wine, digefted 24 hours,
then diltilled. It is a good and agreeable cordial.
Aqua omnium forum, in pharmacy, the water diltilled
from the dung of cows, when they go to grafs; in
Englilh, All-fower-nnater.
Aqua regia, an acid corrofive fpirit, fo called, becaufe
it ferves as a menftruum to diffolve gold, common¬
ly efteemed the king of metals. Its bafis, or eften-
tial ingredient, is common fea-falt, the only fait in
nature which will operate on gold. It is commonly
prepared by mixing common fea-falt, or fal ammoniac,
or the fpirit of them, with fpirit of nitre, or common
aquafortis. See Chemistry, title. Of aqua regia.
Aqua fecunda, denotes aqua fortis, which has been u-
fed to difiblve fome metal.
Aqua fulphurata, the fame with gas fulphuris. See
Gas.
Aqua vitx, the water of life, a name given to malt
fpirits in contradiftin&ion from brandy.
Aqua vitriolica cxrulea, a folution of blue vitriol and
alum, with fome fpirit of vitriol, in water; recom¬
mended in inflammatory and putrid cafes.
AQUiE pavor, in medicine. See Hydrophobia.
AQUiEDUCT, in hydraulics and architedlure, a con¬
veyance made for carrying water from one place to
another. Thofe of the ancient Romans were furpri-
fingly magnificent. That which Lewis XIV. built
near Maintenon, for carrying the Bucq to Verfailles,.
is perhaps the greateft now in the world: It is feven
thoufand fathoms long, with two thoufand five hun¬
dred and fixty fathoms of elevation, and contains two
hundred and forty-two arcades.
AQUA-NEGRA, a fmall town of the Mantuan, in I-
taly, fituated upon the Chiefe, in 90 E. long, and
450 io' N. lat.
AQUAPENDENTE, a city of the ecclefiaftical ftate,
in Italy, fituated upon the river Paglia, abounding in
waters.
AQUARIANS, in church-hiftory, an ancient fe& of
heretics, who, under pretence of abftinence, made ufe
of water inftead of wine in the eucharift.
AQUARIUS, in aftronomy, a conftellauon which makes
the eleventh, fign in the zodiac, marked thus . See.
Astronomy.
AQUARTIA, in botany, a genus of the tetrandria mo-
nogynia clafs. There is only one fpecies, called aculea-j
ta, a native of Europe.
AQUATIC, in natural hiftory, an appellation given to
fuch things as live or grow in the water.
AQU AVIVA, a town of the kingdom of Naples, and
province of Barri.
AQUEDUCT. See Aqueduct.
AQUELEIA, apatiiarchal city of Italy, near the end
oTthe gulph of Venice, fituated in 130 3o/ E. long,
and 46° 20 N. lat.
AQUEOUS, in a general fenfe, fomething partaking of
the nature of water, or that abounds with it.
t 4 R Aqueous
( 341 )
A R A ( 342 ) A .R A
Aqueous humour, in anatomy* See p. 289.
AQUIFOLIUM, in botany, the trivial name of a fpe-
cies of ilex. See Ilex.
AQUILA, in ornithology, a fynonime of the falco, or
eagle. See Falco.
Aquila, in aftronomy, a conftellation of the northern
hemifphere See Astronomy.
Aqjjila, in geography, a large city of Abruzzo, in
the kingdom of Naples, fituated in 140 20' E. long,
and 420 /\o N. lat.
AQUILEGIA, or Columbine, in botany, a genus of
the polyandria pentagynia clafs. It has no calix; the
petals are five, and five horn-like neftaria are infert-
cd betwixt each petal; it has alfo five feparate cap-
fules. There are three fpecies of aquilegia, viz. the
vulgaris, or common columbine, a native of Britain;
the alpina, a native of Switzerland ; and the Cana-
denfis, a native of Virginia and Canada. The aqui¬
legia is reckoned to be an aperient, but has long fince
given way to more powerful medicines.
AQUILICIUM, or Aquiliciana, in Roman antiqui¬
ty, facrifices performed in times of exceflive drought,
to obtain rain of the gods.
AQUILINE, fomething belonging to, or refembling an
eagle: Thus, an aquiline nofe- is one bent fomewhat
like an eagle’s beak.
AQUINO, a ruinous city in the province of Lavoro, in
the kingdom of Naples, fituated in 14° 30 E. long,
and 410 30' N. lat.
ARA, in aftronomy, a fouthern conftellation, containing
eight ftars.
ARABET, a town of Turkilh Tartary, fituated near
the Palus Moeotis. It is fortified with two caftles ;
and is the place where the khan keeps his ftud of hbr-
fes, which are reckoned to be about feven thoufand
in number.
ARABIA, a large country of Afia, having Turky on
the north, Perfia and the gulf of Perfia on the eaft,
the Indian ocean on the fouth, and the Red fea and
ifthmus of Suez on the weft; and fituated between
350 and '60° E. long, and between 120 and 30°
N. lat.
Arabia, though fubjedt to a great many different
princes, is only confidered by geographers as fubdivi-
ded into the three grand divifions of Arabia Felix, A-
rabia Deferta, and Arabia Petrea.
ARABIAN, or Arabic, in a general fenfe, fomething
belonging to Arabia : Thus we fay, Arabian charac¬
ters, Arabian language, <&c. See Hebrew.
Cum ARABIC, the name of a gum which diftills from
the Egyptian acacia tree. It is brought to us from
Turky, in fmall irregular maffes or firings of a pale
yellow colour. The true gum-arabic is rarely to be
met with in the (hops, gum-fenega being ufually fold
in place of it: This refembles the other, but is gene¬
rally in large rough pieces. The true kind is preferred
as a medicine; but the other is cheapeft and ftrongeft,
and therefore preferred for mechanical ufes. It is given,
from a fcruple to two drams, in hoarfenefs, a thin acri¬
monious date of the juices, and where the natural mu¬
cus of the inteftines is abraded. It is likewife an in¬
gredient in the white decoftion, chalk julep, and other
compofitions.
ARABlCl, a fe<5t of heretics, who held, that the foul
both dies and rifes again with the body.
ARABIS, in botany, a genus of the tetradynamia fili-
quofa clafs. The generic mark is taken from four
nedtarifferous glands which lie on the infide of each
leaf of the calix. There are eight fpecies of arabis,
none of which are .natives of Britain, except the tha-
liana, or coded moufe-ear.
ARABISM, in language, an idiom peculiar to the Ara¬
bian language.
ARABLE lands, thofe which are fit for tillage, or which
have been formerly tilled
ARACK, Arrack, or Rack, a fpirituous liquor im¬
ported from the E. Indies, ufed by way of dram and in
punch. The word arack is an Indian name for ftrong
waters of all kinds; for they call our fpirits and
brandy Englifh arack. But what we underftand by
the name arack, is really no other than a fpirit procu¬
red by diftillation from a vegetable juice called toddy,
which flows by incifion out of the cocoa-nut tree.
There are divers kinds of it; fingle, double, and tre¬
ble diftilled. The double diftilled is commonly fent
abroad, and is preferred to all other aracks of India. •
ARACAN, the capital city of a fmall kingdom, fituated
on the north-eaft part of the gulf of Bengal, in 930
T£. long, and 20° 30' N. lat.
ARACARI, in ornithology, the trivial name of a fpe¬
cies of ramphaftos. See Ramphastos.
ARACH, the chief city of Arabia Petrea, fituated in
490 E. long, and 30° 20 N. lat.
ARACHIS, in botany, a genus of the diadelphia de-
candria clafs. There is only one fpecies, viz. the hy-
pogsea, a native of America. The calix is divided in¬
to two parts; and the capfule or pod is cylindrical, and
contains two feeds.
ARACHNOIDES, in anatomy, an appellation given to
feveral membranes, as the tunic of the cryftalline hu¬
mour of the eye, the external lamina of the pia mater,
and one of the coverings of the fpinal marrow.
ARAEOMETER, an inftrument to meafure the gravity
of liquors, which is vjfually made of a thin glafs ball,
with a taper neck, fealed at the top, there being firft
as much mercury put into it as will keep it fwimming
in an exatft pofture. The neck is divided into two
parts, which are numbered, that fo by the depths of
its defeent into any liquor, its lightnefs may be known
by thefe divifions.
ARAEOSTYLE, in architedlure, a term ufed by Vitru¬
vius, to fignify the greateft interval which can be made
between columns.
ARAEOTICS, in medicine, remedies which rarefy the
humours, and render them eafy to be carried off by
the pores of the (kin.
ARAF, among the Mahometans. See Alaraf.
ARAFAT, a mountain of Arabia, near Mecca, where
the Mahometans believe that Abraham offered to fa-
crifice Khmael.
ARAGON, a province of Spain, having Bifcay and-
the Pyrenean mountains on the -north, Catalonia on
the
A R A ( 343 ) A R A
the'eaflr, Valencia on the fouth, and the two Caftiles
on the weft.
ARAIGNEE, in fortification, fignifies the branch, re¬
turn, or gallery ..of a mine. See Mine.
ARALfAj in botany, a genus of tire pentandria penta-
gynia clafs. The involucrum is an umbella; the calix
has five teeth, and is above the fruit; the corolla has
five petals ; and the berry has five feeds. There are
five Species of aralia, all natives of the Indies.
ARALIASTRUM, in botany. See Panax.
ARANDA de Duero, a city of Old Caftile, in Spain,
fituated on the Duero, between Ofina and Valladolid;
fo called, to diftinguilh it.from another city of the fame
name, fituated upon the Ebro.
ARANEA, the Spider, a genus of infefts belonging
to the order of aptera, or infedts without wings. All
the fpecie.s of fpiders have eight legs, with three joints
in each, and terminating in three crooked claws ; eight
eyes, two before, two behind, and the reft on the
fides of the head. The mouth confifts of two claws
or talons, denticulated like a faw. A little below the
point of the claw, there is a fmall hole, through which
the fpider emits a kind of poifon. Thefe claws are the
weapons with which they kill flies, <bc. for their food.
The belly or hinder part is feparated from the head
and breaft by a fmall thread-like tube. The fkin or
outer furface is a hard polilhed cruft. Spiders have
five tubercles or nipples at the extremity of the belly,
whofe apertures they can enlarge or contradl at plea-
fure. It is through thefe apertures that they fpin
a gluey fubftance with which their bellies are full.
They fix the end.of their threads by applying thefe
nipples to any fubftance, and the threads lengthen in
proportion as the animal recedes from it. They can
llop the iffuing of the threads by contradling the nip¬
ples, and re-afcend by means of the claws on their
feet, much in the fame manner as fome men warp up
a rope. When the common houfe-fpider begins her
web, (he generally chufes a place where there is a ca¬
vity, fuch as the corner of a room, that {he may have a
free paflage on each fide, to make her efcape in cafe
of danger. Then {he fixes one end of her thread to
the wall, and pafles on to the other fide, dragging
the thread along with her, (or rather the thread fol¬
lows her as {he proceeds), till file arrives at the other
fide, and there fixes the other end of it. Thus Ihe
pafles and repafles,. till ftie has made as many parallel
. threads as ftie thinks neceflary for her purpofe. Af¬
ter this, ftie begins again and crofles thefe by other
parallel threads, which may be named the woof.
. Thefe are the toils or fnares which {he prepares for.
entangling flies, and other fmall infe&s, which happen
to light upon it. But, befides this large web, {he ge¬
nerally weaves a fmall cell for herfelf, where {he lies
concealed watching for her prey. Betwixt, this cell
and the .large web, Ihe has a bridge of threads^ which,
by communicating with the threads of the large one,
both give her early intelligence when any thing touch¬
es the web, and enables her to pafs quickly in order
to lay held of it. There are many other methods of
weaving peculiar to different fpecies of fpiders. But,
as they are all intended for the fame purpbfe, it is need-’
lefs to give particular deferiptions of them.
Linnaeus enumerates 47 fpecies of fpiders, viz. i.Ther
diadema, has a globular reddifti belly, with a white crofs.
It inhabits the birch-tree. 2. The reticulata, has a re¬
ticulated round belly, and is duflty or purple on the back.
It frequents gardens. 3. The cucurbitina, has a globu¬
lar yellow belly, with a few black fpots. It lives in the
leaves of trees, and inclofes its eggs in a foft net. 4. The*
calycina, with a round pale yellow belly, and two hol¬
low points. It lives in the cups of flowers, after the
flower-leaves have fallen off, and catches bees, and o-
ther flies, when they are in fearch of honey. 5. The
odlopundata, with a roundifti yellow belly, four black
marks on each fide, and a red anus. It is a native of
Sweden. 6. The bipundtata, with around red belly,
and two hollow points. It frequents windows. 7. The
arundinacia, with a white roundiflr belly, and dullty-co¬
loured fpots. It frequents reeds. 8. The angulata,
with an oval belly; the fore-part of the fides form an
acute angle. It frequents trees. 9. The domeftica, or
common houfe-fpider, has a dulky oval belly, with five
contiguous black fpots. 10. The trilineata, with a white
belly, and three longitudinal lines of blackifti fpots. It
lives, in woods. 11. The riparia, has an oval glazed
black belly, and a yellowifli forked hairy anus. It lives
in the fandy banks of rivers. 12. The labyrinthica,
with a dufley oval belly, a whitilh indented line, and a
forked anus. The web of this fpecies is horizontal, with
a cylindrical well or tube in the middle. 13.The quadri-
lineata, has a roundilh yellow belly, and four fpots and
four purple lines on each fide. It is a native of Sweden.
14. The redimita, has an oblong yellow belly, and a
red oval ring on the back. It frequents gardens. 15.The
corollata, has a black oval belly, and an oval white ring-
on the back. It dwells upon plants. 16. The fumiga-
tu, has a dulky oval belly, and two white points at the
bafe. It lives in the fields. 17. The montana, has a
white oval belly, with afli-coloured fpots. It lives in-
trees. 18. The fanguinolenta, has a blood-coloured
belly, with a black longitudinal line. It is a native of
Spain. 19. The notata, has an oval du{ky-coloured-
belly, with white tranfverfe lines. 20. The rufipes,
has a dufky belly, and reddiflv legs. It moft frequently
lives among nettles. 21. The nodhirna, has a black
belly, with two white points, and a little white half¬
moon at the bafe of the anus. 22. The extenfa, has a
long greenilh Alining belly, and its legs are extended
longitudinally. It frequents marftiy grounds. 23. The
fimbriata, has a black oblong belly, with a white line on
each fide, and dulky-coloured legs. It lives in water,
upon the furface of which it runs with great fwiftnefs,
24. The fexpundata,. has an oblong belly, and three
pair of hollow points. It lives in woods'. 25. The
flaviflima, has a fmooth oblong belly of a very yellow
colour. It is a native of Egypt. 26. The bimaculata,
has a chefnut-coloured - roundifh belly, with two white,
points. 27. The clavipes, has an oblong belly, and the
laft joints of the legs, excepting the third pair, are hairy
and clavated. It is a native of America. 28. The
quadripumSata, has a black oblong belly, and four hoL
A R A ( 344 ) ARB
low points. It is to be taet with in windows, ire.
29. The holofericea, has an ovallifn belly covered with
a down like velvet; at the bafe, or under part, it has
two yellow fpots. It is found in the folded leaves of
plants. . 30. The fenoculata, is diltinguilhed from the
tell by having only fix eyes. 31. The avicularia, has
a convex round breaft, hollowed tranfverfely in the
middle. It is a native of America, and feeds upon
fmall birds, infefts, ire. The bite of this fpider is as
venomous as that of the fefpent. 32. The fpinimobilis,
has moveable black fpines on its legs. It is a native of
Surinam. 33. The venatoria, is a hairy fpider, with a
round convex breaft, about the fame fize with the belly,
which is oval. It is a native of America. 34. The
bcellata, has three pair of eyes on its thighs. It is a-
bout the fame fize with the tarantula, of a pale colour,
with a black ring round the belly, and two large black
fpots on the fides of the breaft. It is a native of China.
35. The tarantula, PlateXXIII. fig. 10. The breaft (1),
and belly (2), are of an afh-colour; the legs (3) are
liketvife alb-coloured, with blackifh rings on the under
art; the fangs, or nippers (4), are red on the inner
de, the reft being blackilh; (5) is the antennae or feel¬
ers : Two of its eyes are larger than the other, red, and
placed in the front; four other eyes are placed in a tranf-
verfe diredion towards the mouth ; the other two are
nearer the back. It is a native of Italy, Cyprus, Bar¬
bary, and the E. Indies. The breaft and belly are a-
bout two inches long, terminated by two (hort tails. This
figure was taken from the life, in the illand of Cyprus,
by Alexr Drummond, Efq; late conful at Aleppo. The
bite of the tarantula is faid to occafion an inflammation in
the part, which in a few hours brings„on ficknefs, faint¬
ing, and difficulty of breathing: The perfon afterwards
is affeded with a delirium, putting himfelf into the moft
extravagant poftures. However, this is not always the
cafe ; for they are fometimes feized with a deep melan¬
choly. The fame fymptoms return annually, in fome
cafes, for feveral years, and at laft terminate in death.
Mufic is faid to be the only cure. It induces the pa¬
tient to dance, and fweat out the poifon. 36. The fee-
nica, is a black jumping fpider, with three white femi-
circular lines acrofs its body. It frequents old walls.
37. The truncorum, is a black jumping fpider, with
white fpots on the back. It frequents walls, and old
wood. 38. The rupeftris, is a jumping fpider, with,
black fpots on its belly, which is edged with red and
white in the middle. It frequents walls and trees.
39. The aquatica, is of a livid colour, with an oval
belly, and a tranfverfe line, and two hollowed points.
It frequents the frtlh waters of Europe; and lodges, du¬
ring the winter, in empty (hells, which it dextroufiy
(huts up with a web. 40. The faccata, has an ovab
belly of a dulky iron colour. It lives in the ground, and
carries a fack with its eggs, where-ever it goes. This fack
it glues to its belly, and will rather die than leave it be¬
hind. 41. The paluftris, has an oblong cloudy belly,
with two white lines on each fide. It frequents marfhy
grounds. 42. The virefeens, has an oblong greenilh
yellow belly, with white lines on the fides. It frequents
gardens. 43. The viatica, has a roundilh plain belly.
v'ith the four laft legs (horter than the others. It fre¬
quents gardens, and fits upon its eggs. 44. The laevi-
pes, has a deprefled rhomboidal belly, with its legs
extended in a tranfverfe direction. It is found on
trees and walls. 4$. The tetracantha, has a lunated
belly, and is found in St Thomas’s ifle. 46. The
cancriformis, has a globular belly, and is a native of
America. 47. The fpinofa, has eight fpines on its
back, and a conical belly. It is a native of America.
ARANEA conchea, the fpider-lhell, a name given to
feveral fpecies of murex. See Murex.
ARANEUS, in zoology, the trivial name of a fpecies
of cancer. See Cancer.
ARANjUEZ, a palace belonging to the king of Spain,
beautifully fituated on the banks of the Tagus, about
fifteen or fixteen miles eaftward of Madrid.
ARAPABACA, in botany, a fynonime of the fpigelia.
See Spigelia.
ARARAT, the name anciently given to part of mount
Caucafus, lying between the Euxine and Cafpian feas,
and where Noah’s ark refted.
ARARAUNA, in ornithology, the trivial name of a
fpecies of pfittacus. See Psittacus.
ARASH, a city of the province of Afgar, in the king¬
dom of Fez, where the river Luca falls into the
Weftern Ocean.
ARAUCO, a city of Chili, in S. America, fituated on
a river of the fame name, in 78° W. long, and 370
S. lat.
ARAXES, or Arras, a river of Perfia. See Arras.
ARAYA, one of the moft celebrated capes in'S. Ame¬
rica, forming the north point of the river Oronoque.
See Oronoque.
ARBALET, the fame with crofs-bow. See Cross-bow.
ARBELA, or Irbil, in geography. See Irbil.
ARBITER, in law, a perfon to whofe decifion any dif-
pute or difference is voluntarily referred by the parties.
ARBITRARY, that which is left to the choice or arbi¬
tration of men, or not fixed by any pofitive law or in-
jundtion.
Arbitrary punijhment, in Scots law, denotes fuch
punilhments as are by ftatute left to the diferetion of
the judge. It is a general rule in arbitrary punifti-
ments, that the judge cannot inflidt death. Hence
all puniftiments that are not capital have acquired the
name of arbitrary puniftiments, even although they be
exprefsly pointed out by ftatute.,
ARBITRATION, Arbitrage, or Arbitrement,
the power given by contending parties to an arbiter.
See Arbiter.
ARBITRATOR, a private extraordinary judge, cho-
fen by the mutual confent of parties, to determine
controverfies between them.
ARBOIS, a town of Branch Compte in France, fituated
in 50 4c/ E. long, and 46° 50' N. lat.
ARBON, a town of Swabia in Germany, fituated in
9° 3c/ E. long, and 47° 40' N lat.
ARBOR, in mechanics, the principal part of a machine
which (erves to fuftain the reft: alfo the axis or fpin-
dle on which a machine turns, as the arbor of a crane,
windmill, &c.
ARBO-
ARC ( 345 ) ARC
ARBORIST, a perfon flailed in that part of botiny
which treats of trees.
ARBOUR, in gardening, a kind of fliady bower, for¬
merly in great efteem, but of late rejected, on account
of its being damp and unwholefome.
Arbours are generally made of lattice-work, either
of wood or iron, and covered with elms, limes, horn¬
beams ; or tvith creepers, as honey-fuckles, jafmines,
or paflion-flewers; either of which will anfwer the
purpofe very well, if rightly managed.
ARBUTUS, in botany, a genus of the decandria mo-
nogynia clafs. The calix of the arbutus is divided
into five parts; the corolla is ovated; the fruit is a
berry with five partitions or cells; There are five
fpecies of arbutus, viz. the unedo, or common ftraw-
. berry-tree, a native of Britain ; the andrachne, a
native of the Eaft Indies; the acadienfis, a native of
Acadia; the alpina, or mountain ilrawberry-tree, a
native of Britain ; and the uva urfi, a plant lately dif-
covered in the Highlands of Scotland, and which for¬
merly was thought not to be a native of Britain.
ARC, Ark, or Arch. See Arch.
ARC A cordis, the fame with pericardium. See Peri¬
cardium.
ARCADIA, a fea-port town of European Turky, fi-
tuated on the v/eftern coafi: of the Morea, in 22°
E. long, and 370 20 N. lat.
ARCANGIS, in the Turkifli armies, a kind of irregu¬
lar light-armed horle which fubfift by plunder.
ARCANUM, among phyficians, any remedy, the pre¬
paration of which is induftrioufly concealed, in order
to enhance its value.
ARCBOUTANT, in building, an arched buttrefs.
See Buttress.
ARCH, in geometry, any part of the circumference of
a circle or curved line, lying from one point to ano¬
ther, by which the quantity of the whole circle or
line, or forne other thing fought after, may be gather¬
ed. See Geometry.
Arch, in architefture, a concave building eredted for
the purpofes of fupporting fome ftrudhare, or for ma¬
king an eafy paffage over rivers. See Architec¬
ture.
Triumphal Arch, a {latelygate of a femkircular form*
adorned with fculpture^ inferiptions, ire. eredted in
honour of thofe who had deferred a triumph.
Arch, in compofition, fig'nifies chief, or of the firft
clafs, as archangel, archbifliop, <&c.
ARCHdEUS, or Archeus. See Archeus.
ARCHANGEL, an angel occupying the eighth rank in
the celeftial hierarchy.
Archangel, in botany. Bee Lamium.
Archangel, in geography, a city of the province of
Dwina in Ruflia, fituated four miles from the White
Sea, in 40° I2/ E. long, and 64° 30 N. lat.
ARCHBISHOP, a prelate who has feveral fuffragan
bifhops under him. There are only two archbilhops
in England; the archbifhop of Canterbury, who is
primate of all England; and the archbifhop of York,
who is only ftyled primate of England.
Vol. I. No. 15. f
ARCHBISHOPRIC, in ecclefiaflical geography, a pro¬
vince fubjedt to the jurifdidlion of an archbifliop.
ARCHBUTLER, one of the great officers of the Ger¬
man empire, who prefents the cup to the emperor on
folemn occafiotis. This office belongs to the king of
Bohemia.
ARCHCHAMBERLAIN, an officer of the gmpire, much
the fame with the great chamberlain in England. The
eledlor of Brandenburg was appointed, by the golden
bull, archchamberlain of the empire.
ARCHCHANCELLOR, an high officer who, in ah-,
cient times, prefided over the fecretaries of the court.
Under the two firft races of the kings of France,
when their territories were divided into Germany, I-
taly, and Arles, there v/ere three archchanceliors: and
hence the three archchancellors ftift fubfifting in Ger¬
many ; the archbifhop of Mentz being archchancellor
of Germany, the archbifhop of Cologn of Italy, and
the archbifhop of Treves of Arles.
ARCHCHANTOR, the prefident of the chantors of a
church.
ARCHCOUNT, a title formerly given to the earl of
Flanders.
ARCHDEACON, an ecclefiaftical dignitary or officer
next to a bifhop, whofe jurifdidtion extends either over
the whole dioeefe, or only a part of it. There are
60 archdeacons in England, who vifit the parifhes fub¬
jedt: to their jurifdidtion, inquire into abufes, fufpend,
excommunicate, &c. They likewife indudt all clerks
into their benefices.
ARCHDUKE, a title given to dukes of greater autho¬
rity and power than other dukes. The archduke of
Auftria is among tlie moft ancient: His principal pri¬
vileges are, that he fliall diftribute juftice in his own
country, without appeal; that he cannot be deprived
of hi’s countries, even by the emperor and the ftates
of the empire; and that he have a power of creating
counts, barons, throughout the whole empire.
ARCHED, in a general fenfe, denotes fomething built
or conftrudfed in the fafhion or after the manner of
an arch.
Arched legs, a fault in a horfe when his legs are bended
archwife.
ARCHER, in the ancient military art, one who fought
with bow and arrows. The Englifh archers were
efteemed the beft in Europe, to whofe prowefs and
dexterity the many vidlories over the French were in
a great meafure owing.
ARCHES-csar/, the chief and moft ancient confiftory
that belongs to the archbifhop of Canterbury, for the
debating of fpiritual caufes, fo called from Bow-
Church in London, where it is kept, whofe top is
raifed of ftone-pillars, built archwife. The judge
of this court is termed the dean of the arches, or of¬
ficial of the arches-court: Dean of the arches, becaufe
with this office is commonly joined a peculiar jurifdic-
tion of thirteen parifhes in London, termed a deanry,
being exempted from the authority of the biffiop of
London, and belonging to the archbifhop of Canter¬
bury ; of which the parifh of Bow is one. Some o-
4 S thers
3
ARC ( 346 ) ARC
■ thers fay, that he was firft called dean of the arches,
hecaufe the official to the archbifhop, the dean of the
arches, was his fubfUmte in his court; and by that
means the names became confounded. The jurifdic-
tion of this judge is ordinary, and extends through the
whole province of Canterbury; fo that, upon anyap-
. peal, he forthwith, and without any further examina¬
tion .of the caufe, fends out his citation to the party
appealed, and his inhibition to the judge from whom
the appeal is made.
Arches, in geography, a name ufed among navigators
. for the Archipelago.
ARCHETYPE, the firft model of a work, which is co¬
pied after to make another like it. Among minters, it
is ufed for the ftandard weight by which the others'
are adjufted. The archetypal world, among Plato-
A R C H I T
RCHITECTURE, or the art of building, ought
to. be eonfidered in a twofold light, as an object of
tafte, and as a mechanical art. An examination of its
principles improves our tafte; the practical part contains
SEC
OF ARCHITECTURE AS
lyrAny ages muft have elapfed before architefhire
came to be confidered as a fine ait. Utility was
its original deftination, and 1H11 continues to be its prin¬
cipal end. Experience, however, has taught us, that
architecture is capable of exciting a variety of agreeable
feelings. Of thefe, utility, grandeur, regularity, or¬
der, and proportion, are the chief.
Architeftore being an ufeful as well as a fine art, leads
us to diftinguifli buildings, and parts of buildings, into
three kinds, viz. what are intended for ufe folely, what
for ornament folely, and what for both. Buildings in¬
tended'for milky folely, onght in every part to corre-
fpond precifely to that intention: The leaft deviation
♦ rom ufe, though contributing to ornament, will be dif-
rgreeable; for every work of ufe being confidered as a
mean to an end, its perfeftion as a mean is the capital
circumftance, and every other beauty in. oppofition is ne-
glefted as improper. On the other band', in fuch things
as are intended folely for ornament, as columns, obe-
iilks, triumphal arches, isc. beauty alone onght to- be
regarded. The principal difficulty in archkefture lies in
combining u-fe and ornament. In order to accompliffi?thefe
ends, different and even oppofite means muft be employ¬
ed ; which ia the reafon why they are fo feldom united
nifts, means the world as it exifted in the idea of God,
before the vifible creation.
ARCHEUS, among chemifts, a term ufed to denote the
predominating principle of things, whereby their pe¬
culiar qualities are fixed and determined.
ARCHILOCHIAN, a term in poetry, applied to a fort
of verfes, of which Archilochus was the inventor,
confifting of feven feet, the four firft whereof are or¬
dinarily daftyls, though fometimes fpondees, the three
laft trochees ; as in Horace,
Solvitur acris hycms, grata vice veris it Favcni.
ARCHIPELAGO, in geography, a general term for a
fea interrupted with illands; hut more efpecially de¬
noting that between Greece and Alia.
ARCHITECT, a perfon Hulled in archite&ure.
E C T U R E.
fuch inftruffions as are neceffary for the mechanic.
Many books have been compofed upon the mechanical
part, but few authors have attempted to unfold the phi-
lofophical principles of the art.
T. I.
AN OBJECT OF TASTE.
in perfedHon; and hence, in buildings of this kind, the
only pradticable method is, to prefer utility to ornament
according to the cbaradter of the building t In palaces,
and fuch buildings as admit of a variety of ufeful contri¬
vance, regularity ought to be preferred; but in dwell-
ing-honfes that are too fmall for variety of contrivance,
utility ought to prevail, negledHng regularity as far as
it ftands in oppofition to convenience.
In confidering attentively the beauty of vifible objedls,
we difcover two kinds. The firft may be termed ix-
trinjic beauty, becaufe it is difcovered in a fingle objedt,
without relation to any other. The fecond may be
termed relative beauty, being founded on a combination
of relative objedts. Architedhtre admits of both kinds.
We (hall firft give a few examples of relative beauty..
The proportions of a door are determined by the wfe
to which it is deftined. The door of a dwelling-houfe,
which ought to correfpond to the human fize, is confined
to feven or eight feet in height, and three or four in
breadth. The proportions proper for a (table or coach-
houfe are different. The door of a church ought to be
wide, in order to afford an eafy paffage for a multitude ;
and its height muft be regulated by its widenefs, that the
proportion may pleafe: the eye. The fize of the win¬
dows
A R C H I T
dows ought always to be proportioned to that of the
room they are deftined to illuminate; for if the aper¬
tures be not large enough to convey light to every cor¬
ner, the room muft be unequally lighted, which is a
great deformity. Steps of flairs ftiould likewife be ac¬
commodated to the human figure, without regarding any
other proportion ; they are accordingly the fame in large
and in fmall buildings, becaufe both are inhabited by
men of the fame fize.
We ftiall next confider intrinftc beauty, blended with
that which is relative. A cube in itfelf is more agree¬
able than a parallelopipedon; this conftantly holds in
fmall figures : But a large building in the form of a cube
is lumpifh and heavy; while a parallelopipedon, fet on
its fmaller bafe, is more agreeable on account of its ele¬
vation: Hence the beauty of Gothic towers. But if
this figure were to be ufed in a dwelling-houfe, to make
way for relative beauty, we would immediately perceive
that utility ought chiefly to be regarded; and this figure,
inconvenient by its height, ought to be fet on its larger
bafe: The loftinefs in this cafe would be loft; but that
lofs will be more than fufficiently compenfated by the
additional convenience. Hence the form of buildings
fpread more upon the ground than raifed in height, is
always preferred for a dwelling-houfe.
With regard to the internal divifions, utility requires
that- the rooms be reflangular, to avoid ufelefs fpaces.
An hexagonal figure leaves no void fpaces; but it deter¬
mines the rooms to be all of one fize, which is both in¬
convenient and difagreeable for want of variety. Tho’
a cube be the moft agreeable figure, and may anfwer for
a room of a moderate fiz&-; yet, in a very large room,
utility requires a different figure. Unconfined motion is
the chief convenience of a great room; to obtain this,
the greateft length that can be had is necefl’ary.. But a
fquare room of a large fize is inconvenient. It removes
chairs, tables, fee. at too great a diftance from the hand,
which, when unemployed, muft be ranged along the fides
of the room. Utility therefore requires a large room to
be a parallellogram. This figure is likewife beft calcu¬
lated for the admiffion of light; becaufe, to avoid crofs-
lights, all the windows ought to be in,oner wall; and if
the oppolite wall be at fuch a diftance as not to be fully
lighted, the room muft be obfeure. The height of a
room exceeding nine or ten feet, has little relation to
utility ; therefore proportion is the only rule for deter-
inining the height, when above that number of feet.
Artifts who deal in the beautiful, love to entertain the
eye; palaces and fumptuous buildings, in which intri'nfic
beauty may be fully difplayed, give them an opportunity
of exerting their tafte. But fuch a propenfity is pecu¬
liarly unhappy with regard to private dwelliiig-houfes;
becaufe in thefe, relative beauty cannot be difplayed to
perfedtion, without hurting intrinfie beauty. There is
no opportunity for great variety of form in a fmall houfe;
and in edifices of this kind, internal' convenience, has-not
hitherto been happily adjufted to external regularity.
Perhaps an accurate coincidence in this refpeA is beyond
die reach of art. Architedls, however, conftantly fplit
upon this rock; for they never can be perfuaded to give
over attempting to reconcile thefe two incompatibks:
E C T U R E. 347
How otherwife fhould it happen, that of the endlefs va¬
riety of private dwelling-houfes, there fhould not be one
found that is generally agreed upon as a good pattern ?
The unwearied propenfity to make a houfe regular as
well as convenient, obliges the architefl, in feme arti¬
cles, to facrilice convenience to regularity, and, in o-
tbers, regularity to convenience; and accordingly the
houfe, which turns out neither regular nor convenient,,
never fails to difpleafe.
Nothing can be more evident, than that the form of
a dwelling-houfe ought to be fuited to the climate; yet
no error is more common than to copy in Britain the
form of Italian houfes, not forgetting even thofe parts
that are purpofely contrived for colledling air, and for
excluding the fun: Witnefs out colonnades and logics,
defigned by the Italians to gather cool air,, and exclude
the beams of the fun, conveniencies which the climate
of this country does not require.
We fhall next view architedlure as one of the fine arts ;
which will lead us to the examination of fuch buildings,.
and parts of buildings, as are calculated folely to pleafe
the eye. Variety prevails in the works of nature; but
art requires to be guided by rule and compafs. Hence it
is, that in fuch works of art as imitate nature, the great
art is, to hide every appearance of art; which is done
by avoiding regularity, aud indulging variety. But in
works of art that are original and not imitative,, fuch as
archite&ure, ftridt regularity and uniformity ought to be
ftudied, fo far as confiftent with utility..
Proportion is not lefs agreeable than regularity and uni¬
formity ; and therefore, in buildings intended to pleafe
the eye, they are all equally effemial. It is taken for
granted by many writers, that in all the parts of a build¬
ing there are certain ftrift proportions which pleafe the
eye, in die fame manner as in found there are certain
ftriA proportions which pleafe the ear; and that, in both,
the flighteft deviation is equally difagreeable. Others,
feem to relifh more a comparifon between proportion in
numbers, and proportion in quantity; and maintain, that
the fame proportions are agreeable in both. The pro¬
portions, for example, of the numbers 16, 24, and 36,
are agreeable; and fo, fay they, are the proportions of
a room, whole height is 16 feet, the breadth 24, and
the length 36. But it ought to be confidered, that there
is no refemblance or relation between the obje&s of dif¬
ferent fenfes. What pleafes the ear in harmony, is not
the proportion of the firings of the inftrunient, but of
the found which thefe firings produce. In architecture,
on the contrary, it is the proportion of different quanti¬
ties that pleafes the eye, without the leaf! relation to
found. The fame thing,may be faid of numbers, Quan¬
tity is a real..quality of every body; number is not a
real quality, but merely an idea that arifes upon view¬
ing a plurality of things in fucceflion. An arithmetical,
proportion is agreeable in numbers; but have we from
this any reafon to conclude, that it rauft alfo be agree¬
able in quantity. ? At this rate, a geometrical propor¬
tion,, and many, others, ought alfo to be agreeable in
both. A certain proportion may coincide in quantity,
and number; and amongft an endlefs variety of propor¬
tions, it- would be wonderful, if there never ihould be. a.
coincidence,.
34* a: r g h i t
coincidence. One example is given of this coincidence,
in the numbers 16, 24, and*3 6 ; but to be convinced "that
it is merely accidental, we need but refiect, that the fame
proportions are not applicable to the external figure of a
houfe, and far lefs to a column.
It is ludicrous to obferve writers acknowledging the
necefiity of accurate proportions, and yet differing wide¬
ly about them. Laying afide reafoning and phiiofophy,
one faft univerfally agreed on ought to have undeceived
them, that the fame proportions which pleafe in a model
are not agreeable in a large building: A room 48 feet
in length, and 24 in breadth and height, is well propor¬
tioned ; but a room 12 feet wide and high, and 24 long,
approaches to a gallery.
Perrault, in his comparifon of the ancients and mo¬
derns, goes to the oppofite extreme, maintaining, that
the different proportions afligned to each order of co¬
lumns are arbitrary, and that the beauty of thefe pro¬
portions is entirely the effect of cuftom. But he fltould
have confidered, that if thefe proportions had not origi¬
nally been agreeable, they could never have been elia-
bliflied by cuflom.
For illuflxating this point, we fliall add a few examples
of the agreeablenefs of different proportions. In a fump-
tuous edifice, the capital rooms ought to be large, other-
wife they will rot be proportioned to the fize of the
building; for the fame reafon, a very large room is im¬
proper ia a fmall houfe. But in tilings thus related, the
mind requires not a precife or fingle proportion, rejecting
all others; on the contrary, many different proportions
are equally agreeable. It is only when a proportion be¬
comes loofe and diftant, that the agreeablenefs abates,
and at laft vanifh,es. Accordingly, in buildings, rooms
of different proportions are found to be equally agree¬
able, even where the proportion is not influenced by uti¬
lity. With regard to the proportion the height of a
room fhould bear to the length and breadth, it muft be
extremely arbitrary, confidering the uncertainty of the
eye as to the height of a room when it exceeds 16 or
17 feet. In columns, again, every architect muft con-
fefs, that the proportion of height and thicknefs varies
betwixt 8 diameters and 10, and that every proportion
between thefe two extremes is agreeable. Befides, there
muft certainly be a further variation of proportion, de¬
pending on the fize of the column : A row of columns
10 feet high, and a row twice that height, requires
different proportions : The intefcolumniations muft alfo
differ in proportion according to the height of the row.
Proportion of parts is not only itfelf a beauty, but is
infeparably connefted with a beauty of the higheft relilh,
that of concord and harmony ; which will be plain from
what follows : A room, the parts of which are all finely
adjufted to each ether, ftrikes us not only with the beau¬
ty of proportion, but with a pleafure far fuperior. The
length, the breadth, the height, the windows, raife each
of them a feparate emotion : Thefe emotions are fimilar;
and, though faint when feparately felt, they produce, in
conjunftion, the emotion of concord or harmony, which
is very pleafant. On the other hand, where the length
of a room far exceeds the breadth, the mind, comparing
together parts fo intimately connected, immediately per-
E C T U R E;
ceives a difagreement or difproportion which difgufts’
Hence'a long gallery, however convenient for eXercife,
is not an agreeable figure of a room.
In buildings deftined chiefly or folely to pleafe the eyei
regularity and proportion are effentially neceflary, be*
caufe they are the means of producing intrinfic beauty.
But a fkilful artift will not confine his view to regularity
and proportion; he will alfo ftudy congruity, which is
perceived when the form and ornaments of a ftrudlure
are fuited to the purpofe for which it is appointed.
Hence every building ought to have an .expreffion fuited
to its deftination. A palace ought to be fumptuous and
grand; a private dwelling, neat and modeft; a play*
h ;ufe, gay and fplendid; and a monument, gloomy and
melancholy. A heathen temple has a double deftination:
It is confidered as a houfe dedicated to feme divinity;
therefore it ought to be grand, elevated, and magnifi¬
cent : It is alfo confidered as a place of worfhip; and
therefore ought to be fomewhat dark and gloomy, be-
caufe dimneis or obfeurity produces that tone of mind
which is favourable to humility and devotion. Columns,
befides their chief deftination of being fupports, contri¬
bute to that peculiar expreflion which the deftination of
a building requires: Columns of different proportions
ferve to exprefs loftinefs, liglunefs, as well as
firergth. Situation may alfo contribute to expreflion:
Cohveniency regulates the fituation of a private dwell*
ing-houfe ; and the fituation of a palace ought to be lof¬
ty. This leads to a queftion, Whether the fituation,
where there happens to be no choice, ought, in any
meafure, to regulate the form of the edifice ? The con*
neftion between a great houfe and a neighbouring field;
though not extremely intimate, demands however fome
congrufty. It would, for example, difpleafe us to find
an elegant building thrown away upon a wild uncultivated
counti y: Congruity requires a polifhed field for fuch a
building. The old Gothic form of building was well
fuited to the rough uncultivated regions v/here it was in¬
vented ; but was very ill adapted to the fine plains of
France and Italy.
The external ftrufture of a houfe leads naturally to
its internal ftrufture. A large and fpacious room, which
is the firft that commonly receives us, is a bad contri¬
vance in feveral refpe&s. In the firft plate, when im¬
mediately from the open air we ftep into fuch a room,
its fize in appearance is diminifhed by contrail; it lo'oks
little, compared with the great canopy of. the Iky. In
the next place, when it recovers its giandeur, as it foon
doth, it gives a diminutive appearance to the reft of thq
houfe ; palling from it, every apartment looks little. In
the third place, by its fituation it ferves only for a wait¬
ing-room, and a paffage to the principal apartments.
Rejecting therefore this form, a hint may be taken from
the climax in writing for another that appears more fuit-
able: A handfome portico, proportioned to the fize and
falhion of the front, leads into a waiting-room of a lar¬
ger fize, and this to the great room, all by a progreffion
from fmall to great.
Grandeur is the principal emotion that architeflure
is capable of raifing in the mind: it might therefore be
the chief ftudy of the artift, in great buildings deftined
A 11 CHIT
to pleafe the eye. But as grandeur depends partly on
fize, it is unlucky for .architedture that it is governed by
regularity and proportion, which never deceive the eye
by making objedts appear larger than they are in reality.
But though regularity and proportion contribute nothing
to grandeur, fo far as that emotion depends on fize ; yet
they contribute greatly to it by confining the fize within
fuch bounds that it can be taken in and examined at one
view; for, when objedts are fo large as not to be com¬
prehended but in parts, they tend rather to diftradt than
fatisfy the mind.
We (hall next pafs to fuch ornaments as contribute to
give buildings a peculiar expreffion. It has been doubt¬
ed, whether a building can regularly admit any ornament
but what is ufeful, or at leail has that appearance. But,
confidering the double aim of architedture as a fine,
as well as an ufeful art, there is no reafon why orna¬
ments may not be added to pleafe the eye, without any
relation to utility. A private dwelling-houfe, it is true,
and other edifices, where ufe is the chief aim, admit hot
regularly any ornament but what has at leafl: the appear¬
ance of ufe : But temples, triumphal arches, and other
buildings intended chiefly or folely for (how, may be
highly ornamented.
This fuggefts a divifion of ornaments into three kinds,
viz. i. Ornaments that are beautiful without relation to
ufe; fuch as ftatues, vafes, baflb or alto relievo :
2. Things in themfelves not beautiful, but polTefling the
beauty of utility, by impofing on the fpedlator, and ap¬
pearing to be ufeful; fuch as blind windows: 3. Where
things are beautiful in themfelves, and at the fame time
take on the appearance of ufe; fuch as pilafters.
With regard to the yfr/?, we naturally require that a
ftatue be fo placed, as to be feen in every diredtion, and
examined at different diftances. Statues, therefore, are
properly introduced to adorn the great flair that leads to
to the principal door of a palace, or to leffen the void be¬
tween pillars. But a niche in the external front is an
improper place for a ftatue. There is an additional rea¬
fon againft placing them upon the roof or top of the
walls; their ticklifh fituation gives pain, as they have
the appearance of being in danger of tumbling down ;
befides, we are inclined to feel from their being too much
expofed to the inclemencies of the weather. To adorn
the top of the wall with a row of vafes, is an unhappy
conceit, by placing a thing, whofe natural deflination is
utility, where it cannot have even the appearance of ufe.
As to carvings upon the external furface of a building,
termed bajfo relievo when flat, and alto relievo when
prominent, all contradidlory expreffions ought to be a-
voided. Now, firmnefs and folidity being the proper
expreffions of a pedeflal, and, on the contrary, lightnefs
and delicacy of carved work, the pedeflal, whether of a
column or of a ftatue, ought to be fparingly ornamented.
The ancients never ventured any bolder ornament than
the baflb relievo.
With refpedt to ornaments of the fecond kind, it is a
great blunder to contrive them fo as to make them appear
ufelefs. A blind window, therefore, when neceflary for
regularity, ought to be fo difguifed as to appear a real
window r When it appears without difguife, it is difguft-
. Vol. I. Numb. 15.
E C T U R E. 349
ful, as a vain attempt to fupply the want of invention ;
it fhows the irregularity in a ftronger light, by fignify-
ing that a window ought to be there in point of regu¬
larity, but that the architect had not (kill fufficient to
confiedt external regularity with internal convenience.
As to the third, it is an error to fink pilafters fo far
into the wall, as to remove totally, or moftly, the ap¬
pearance of ufe. They fhould always projedl fo much
from the wall, as to have the appearance of fupporting
the entablature over them.
From ornaments in general, we defeend to a pillar,
the chief ornament in great buildings. The deftination
of a pillar is to fupport, really or in appearance, another
part termed the entablature. With regard to the form
of a pillar, it muft be obferved, that a circle is a more
agreeable figure than a fquare, a globe than a cube, and
a cylinder than a parallellopipedon. This laft, in the
language of architedture, is faying, that a column is a
more agreeable figure than a pilafter; and for that reafon
it ought to be preferred, when all other circumftances
are equal. Another reafon concurs, that a column an¬
nexed to a wall, which is a plain furface, makes a greater
variety than a pilafter. Befides, pilafters at a diftance
are apt to be miftaken for pillars ; and the fpedtator is dif-
appointed when, on a nearer approach, he difeovers them
to be only pilafters.
As to the parts of a column, a bare uniform cylinder,
without a capital, appears naked; and without a bafe,
appears too tickliflrly placed to Hand firm: It ought
therefore to have fome finiftring at the top and bottom:
Hence the three chief parts of a column, the fhaft, the
bafe, and the capital. Nature undoubtedly requires
proportion among thefe parts, but it admits of variety
of proportion. Vitruvius and fome of the elder writers
feem to think, that the proportions of columns were de¬
rived from the human figure, the capital reprefenting
the head, the bafe the feet, and the ftiaft the body..
The Tufcan has been accordingly denominated the Gi¬
gantic ; the Doric, the Herculean; the Ionic, the Ma¬
tronal', and the Corinthian, the Virginal:—the Com-
pofite is a mixture of the Corinthian and Ionic. As to
the bafe, the principle of utility interpofes to vary it
from the human figure, and to proportion it fo to the
whole, as to give the column the appearance of liability.
Among the Greeks, we find only three orders of co¬
lumns, the Doric, the Ionic, and the Corinthian, dillin-
guiflred from each other by their deftination as well as
by their ornaments. It has been difputed, whether any
new order can be added to thefe: Some hold the affirma¬
tive, and give for inftances the Tufcan and Compofite;
others maintain, that thefe properly are not diftindt or¬
ders, but only the original orders with fome flight vari¬
ation. The only circumftances that can ferve to diftin-
guilh one order from another, are the form of the co¬
lumn, and its deftination. To make the firft a diftin-
guilhing mark without regard to the other, would multi¬
ply orders without end. Deftination is more limited,
and it leads us to diftinguilh three kinds of orders; one.
plain and ftrong, for the purpofe of fupporting plain and
mafly buildings ; one delicate and graceful, for fupport¬
ing buildings of that charadter; and between thefe, a
t 4 T third,
3S0 A R C H I T
third, fupporting buildings of a mixed nature. So that,
jf deftination alone is to he regarded, the Tufcan is of
the fame order with the Doric, and the Compofite with
the Corinthian.
The ornaments of thefe three orders ought to Be fuit-
Od to the purpofes for which they are intended. Plain
and rulHc ornaments would he not a little difcordant
with the elegance of the Corinthian order, and fweet and
delicate-ornaments riot lefs with the flrength of the Doric.
With refpedt to buildings of every kind, one rule,
diQated hy utility, is, that they be firm and (table. Aa-
S E C
OF ARCHITECTURE A
Of the Origin of Buitoings.
'OUitniNG s, in the firfl ages of foeiety, behoved to be
extremely rude. The firft huts were probably of a
conic figure, being the mod fimple, and bed adapted to
?he materials that could be obtained in fucli an unculti¬
vated date of fociety. Thefe huts were formed of
branches of trees, covered with reeds, leaves, and clay.
But, finding the conic figure inconvenient, on account
©fits inclined fides, they changed it into a cubical one,,
in the following manner: They fixed in the ground fe-
vera! upright trees to fornt the (ides, filling the intervals
between them with branches clofely interwoven, and co¬
vered with clay. The fides being thus compleated, four
large beams were placed on the upright trunks, which,
being well joined at the angles, kept the fides firm ; and
iikewife ferved to fupport the roof, which was compofed
of many joids, covered with reeds, leaves, and clay.
As men improved in the art of building, new methods
of rendering their huts lading and handfome were gra¬
dually invented.. They took off the bark and other un-
cvenneffes from the trunks of the trees that formed the
hdes, and raifed them above the dirt on dones. The
fpaces between the ends of the joids were clofed with
clay, and the ends of them were covered with thin boards,
cut in the form of triglyphs, <bc.
From this fimple condru&ion the different orders of
architeAure took their rife. When buildings of wood
were laid afide, they imitated, in their edifices of done,
the form which neceffity had introduced into the primi¬
tive huts: Hence the upright trees gave rife to the
columns ; and the beams, joids, rafters, and drata of
materials that formed the covering, fuggeded architraves,
frizes, triglyphs, and cornices.
At what time, or by whom, the Grecian orders were
invented, is not certainly known. But the following is
the account which Vitruvius gives of them.
Dorns, king of Achaia, and fon of Helenes and Op¬
tica, built a temple to Juno in the ancient city of Argos,
which happened to be in the manner now called Doric,.
from the name of the inventor. This manner was after¬
wards imitated in many other temples in the feveral cities
ef Aehaia.
E C T U R E.
other, diAated by beauty, is, that they alfo appear fo
to the eye; for every thing that appears tottering, and
in hazard of tumbling down, produceth in the fpeAa-
i*ir the painful emotion of fear, indead of the pleafing-
emotion of beauty; and accordingly it (hould be the
great care of the art id', that every part of his edifice
appear to be well fupported. Some have introduced a
kind of conceit in architeAure, by giving' parts of buildings
the appearance of falling; of this kind is the church of
St Sophia in Oondantinople ; the round towers in the up-
permod dories of Gothic buildings is in the fame falfe fade.
T. II.
S A MECHANICAL ART.
The Athenians, about the fame time, fent thirteen co¬
lonies into Afia, under the command of Ion, fon of Xu-
thus and Creufa.. This Ion conquered all Caria, found¬
ed many cities, and called the country Ionia. The fird
temple he built was after the Doric manner. But after¬
wards he built a temple to Diana of a more delicate druc-
ture, and formed upon the proportions of a female bo¬
dy, as the Doric had been on tbofe of a robud mans,
The capital^ was adorned with volutes, to reprefent the
curls of a woman’s hair; and dutingswere cut on the (haft
of the column, in imitation of the folds of her garment.
This order got the name of Ionic, in. honour of the loni-
ans who invented it.
The third fort of columns, called Corinthian, are faid
to owe their origin to the following accidentA young
girl of Corinth having died, her nurfe placed on her
tomb a- bafket, containing certain trinkets, in which (he
delighted when alive, and covered it with a tyfe to pre¬
vent the rain from, fpoiling them. The bafket happened
to be placed on a root of acanthus, which- pudiing out
its leaves in the fpring, covered the fides of the bafltet;
fome of the longed of which, being obdruAed by the
corners of the tyle, were forced downwards, and curled
in the manner of volutes. Calimachus the fculptor, pat
fing near the tomb, was fo. pleafed with- the beautiful ap¬
pearance of the acanthus growing in this manner, that he
imitated it in the columns which he afterwards made at
Corinth.
Villalpandus treats this dory of Calimachus as a fa¬
ble, and maintains that the Corinthian capital took its
origin from an order in Solomon’s temple; and it mud
be acknowledged, that fome defcriptions in the Bible
favour this opinion.
Befides thefe three orders, faid to, be invented by the
Greeks, two other, viz. the Tufcan and Compofite, are
thought to have been invented by the Romans. The
Tufcan fird appeared in Tufeany, before the Romans had
any intercourfe with the Greeks. The Compofite is a
mixture of tire Ionic and Corinthian. Thefe five man¬
ners of building, invented by the ancients, are called
Orders, on account of the regularity and beauty of
their forms.
Of
--6b*- -
llate A'XV.
The
D cmic ()T!J)f;t>
ARCHITECTURE,
35i
Of the Parts that compofe an Order, and
their Ornaments.
•_ The parts that compofe an order may be diftxibuted
into two different claffes. In the firji may be ranged
all that have any analogy to the primitive huts, and re-
ptefent fome part that was neceffary ki t-heir conftrudion.
Such are the Ihaft of the column, with the plinth of its
bafe, and the abacus of its capital, representing the up¬
right trees, with the ftones on which they were placed',
and thofe that covered them ; likewife the architrave and
triglyphs, reprefenting the beams and jo ids ; the mutules,
tnodilions, or dentils, which, all of them reprefent the
rafters, or fome other pieces of timber ufed to Support
the coveringand the corona, reprefenting the beds of
materials that eompofed the covering. All thefe may
properly be diftinguilhed by the name of effential mem¬
bers. The fubfervient parts, contrived for the ufe or
ornament of the former, and commonly called mould¬
ings, may conffitute the fecond ckfs.
There are eight regular mouldings; in- ornamenting
columns ; the fillet, liftel, or fcjuare; the aftragal, or
bead; the torus, or tore; the fcotia* mouth, or eafe-
ment; the echinus, ovolo, or quarter-round; the in¬
verted cyma, talon, or ogee; the cyma, cyma redfa, or
cymatium ; the cavetto, or hollow. The names of thefe
allude to their forms, and their forms are adapted to the
purpofes for which they are intended. See Plate XXVII.
The ovolo and talon, as they are ftrong at the extre-
aiities, are fit for fupports ; the cyma and cavetto, tho-’
improper for fupports, ferve for coverings to flicker o-
ther members; the torus and' aftragal, being fliaped like
rapes, are intended fo bind and fortify the parts with
which they are conneifted: But the ufe of the fcotia
and fillet, is only to feparate and diftinguifn the other
mouldings, to give a graceful turn to the profile, and to
prevent the eonfuflon which would arife from joining fe-
veral curved members together.
There are various- methods of defcribing the contours
ef mouldings; but the fimpleft and beft is to form them
of quadrants of circles, as in Plate XXVII.
An affemblage of what are called effential parts and
mouldings, is termed a profile. The moft perfect pro¬
files are fuch as are compofed of few mouldings, varied
in form and fize; and- fo difpofed, that the ftreight and
curved ones fueceed each other alternately. When
ornaments are employed in mouldings, fome of them fhould
be left plain, in order to give a proper repofe : For,
when all are ornamented, the figure of the profile is loft.
Of the Orders of Architecture.
An Order confifts of two principal members, tRe
Column and the Entablature; each of which is
compofed of three principal parts. Thofe of the Co¬
lumn are, the Bafe, the Shaft, and the Capital', and
thofe of the Entablature are, the Architrave, the Frize,
and the Cornice. All thefe are fubdivided into many
Icfler parts, whole number, form, and dimenfions cha-
rafterife each order, and exprefs the degree of ftrength,
delicacy, richnefs, or fimplicity peculiar to it.
1. OF THE TUSCAN.
The Tuscan (Plate XXIV.) is the moft folid and
Ample of all the orders. It is compofed of few parts,
devoid of ornaments, and fo maffy, that its feems ca¬
pable of fuppordng the heavieft burden. There are
ho remains of a regular Tufcan order among the an¬
tiques; the doftrine of Vitruvius concerning it is ob-
feure; and the profiles of Palladio, Scamozzi, Serlio,
de 1’Orme, and Vignola, are all imperfedh *
The height of the Tufcan column is 14 modules,
or femidiameters,. each conlifting of 30 minutes; and
that of the whole entablature 3A modules; which being
divided into 10 equal parts, three of them are for the
height of the architrave, three for the freeze, and the
remaining four for the cornice: The capital is one mo¬
dule; the bafe, including the lower cinature of the fhafr,
is likewife one module; and the Ihaft,. with its upper
cindture and aftragal, 12 modules.
Thefe are the general dimenfions of the order; the
particular dimenfions may be learned by infpe&ion of the
plates.
In the remains of antiquity, the quantity of diminu¬
tion at the top of the Tufcan column is various; but fel-
dom lefs than one eighth, nor more than one fixth of the
inferior diameter of the column. The laft of thefe is
generally preferred ; and Chalmers and others make the
fame diminution in all columns, without regard to their
order.
2. OF THE DORIC ORDER.
The Doric Order, (Plate XXV.) is next in
ftr-ength to the Tufcan ; and being of a grave, robuft, and
mafcullne afpedt, is by Scamozzi called the Herculean.
As it is the moft ancient of all the orders, it retains
more of the ftrudlure of the primitive huts than any of
the reft ; the triglyphs in its freeze reprefenting the
ends, of the jpifts; and the mutules in its cornice, repre¬
fenting the rafters.
The height of the Doric column, including its capital
and bafe, is 16 modules, and the height of the entabla¬
ture four; the latter of which being divided into eight
parts, two of them are for the architrave, three for the
frize, and three for the cornice.
In moft of the antiques, the Doric.column is executed
without a bafe. Vitruvius likewife makes it without one ;
the bale, according to him, having been firft employed'
in. the Ionic order, in imitation of the fandaf of a wo¬
man’s foot. Scamozzi blames this pradlice, and moft
of the modern architedts are of his opinion.
In the profile of the theatre of Marcellus, the Frize is
enriched with hulks and rofes; the architrave confifts
only of one fafeia and a fillet; the drops are conical
the metope is enriched with a bull’s flail/, adorned with
a garland of beads,, in imitation of thofe on the temple
of Jupiter Tonans at the foot of the Capitol. In force
antique fragments, and in a great many mordern build¬
ings, the metopes are alternately adorned with ox-lkulls
and pateras. But they may be filled with any other or¬
naments, according to the deftination of the building.
3. O F
352 A R C II I T
3. OF THE IONIC ORDER.
The Ioxic Order (PlateXXVI.) isof amoreflender
make than the Doric orTufcan; its appearance is fimple,
yet graceful and majeftic; its ornaments are few; fo that
it has beem compared to a fedate matron, in decent,
rather than magnificent attire.
Among the ancients, the form of the Ionic profile ap¬
pears to have been more pofitively determined than that
*f any other order; for, in all the antiques at Rome,
(the temple of Concord excepted) it is exadtly the fame.
The modern artifts have likewife been unanimous in
their opinions; all of them, excepting Palladio and his
imitators, having employed the dentil, cornice, and
the other parts of the profile, nearly as they are found
in the Collifeum, the temple of Fortune, and the theatre
of Marcell us.
The height of the Ionic column is 18 modules, and
that of the entablature qi, or one quarter of the height
of the column, as in the other orders, which is a trifle
lefs than in any of the antique Ionics. In all the an¬
tiques, the bafe is Attic; and the ftiaft of the column
may either be plain, or fluted with 24 flutings, or 20 on¬
ly, as in the temple of Fortune. The plan of the flu-
tings may be a trifle more than a femicircle, as in the
forum of Nerva, becaufe they then appear more diftindt.
The fillets, or intervals between them, muft not be
broader than one third of the breadth of a fluting,
nor narrower than one fourth. The ornaments of the
capital mufl: correfpond with the flutings of the ihaft;
and there muft be an ove above the middle of each flu¬
ting. The volutes ought to be traced according to Mr
Goldman’s method, which is as follows :
Plate XXVII. fig. 9. Draw the cathetus F C,
whofe length muft be 15 minutes, or one fourth of a mo¬
dule ; and, from the point C, defcribe the eye of the
volute A E B D, of which the diameter is to be 6 } mi¬
nutes; divide it into four equal fedlors by the diameters
A B, D E. Bifedt the radii C A, C B, in 1 and 4 ;
and on the line 1, 4, cqnftrudla fquare 1, 2, 3, 4. From
the centre C, to the angles 2, 3, draw the diagonals
C 2, C 3, and divide the fide of the fquare 1, 4, into 6
equal parts, at 5, 9, C, 12,8. Then through the points
5, 9, 12, 8, draw the lines 5, 6, 9, 10, 12, 11, 8, 7,
parallel to the diameter E D, which will cut the diago¬
nals in 6, 7, 10, 11 ; and the points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, will be the centres of the volute.
From the firft centre 1, with fhe diftance 1 F, defcribe
the quadrant F G; from the fecond centre 2, with the
diftance 2 G, defcribe the quadrant G H; and, continu¬
ing the fame operation from all the 12 centres, the con¬
tour of the volute will be completed.
Fig. 10. The centres for defcribing the fillet are
found in this manner. Conftrudt a triangle, of which the
fide A F is equal to the part of the cathetus contained
between A F and the fide F V, equal to C 1 ; place the
diftance F S from F towards A, equal to F S the breadth
of the fillet, and through the point S draw the line S T,
which will be to C 1 in the fame proportion as A S is
to A F; place this line on the diameter of the eye A B ;
E C T U R E.
divide it into three equal parts ; and, through the points
of divifion, draw lines parallel to the diameter E D,
which will cut the diagonals C 2, C 3, and you will have
twelve new centres, from whence the interior contour of
the fillet may be defcribed, in the fame manner as the
exterior one was from the firft centres.
4. OF THE CORINTHIAN ORDER.
The proportions of this order are extremely delicate.
It is divided into a great variety of members, and en¬
riched with a profufion of ornaments. Scamozzi calls
it the virginal order; and indeed it has all the delicacy
in its make, and all the gaiety in its drefs, peculiar to
young girls. See Plate XXVIII.
The moft perfect model of the Corinthian order is ge¬
nerally allowed to be in the three columns in the Campo
Vaccino at Rome, the remains, as it is thought, of the
temple of Jupiter Stator.
The Corinthian column fhould be 20 modules high,
and the entablature 5 ; which proportions are a medium
between thofe of the Panthason and the three columns.
The bafe of the column may either be Attic or Corin¬
thian : They are both beautiful. If the entablature be
enriched, the ftiaft may be fluted. The flutings may be
filled, to one third of their height, with cablings, as in
the infide of the Panthseon; which will ftrengthen the
lower part of the column, and make it lefs liable to in-
jury.
In moft of the antiques at Rome, the capital of this
order is enriched with olive-leaves; the acanthus being
feldom employed but in the Compofite. De Cordemoy,
however, prefers the acanthus.
The divifions of the entablature bear the fame propor¬
tions to each other, as in the Tufcan, Ionic, and Compo- i
fite orders.
5. GF THE COMPOSITE.
The Composite is, ftridHy fpeaking, only a fpecies :
of the Corinthian; and therefore retains, in a great ;
meafure, the fame charadter. See Plate XXIX.
It does not appear that the ancients affedted any parti-.
cular form of entablature to this order. Sometimes the
cornice is entirely plain, as in the temple of Bacchus; at J
others, as in the arch of Septimius Severus, it is enrich- jt
ed with dentils differing very little from the Ionic ; and
in the arch of Titus, there are both dentils and modilions;
the whole form of the profile being the fame with the j
Corinthian, as executed in the antiques at Rome.
The modern architedfs have varied more in this than n
in any other order, each following the bent of his own j
fancy.
The height of the Compofite column, and parts of .'
the entablature, is the fame with that of the Corinthian. .
The foot of the leaves of the capital ought not to pro- (•
jedt beyond the upper part of the ftiaft. The different t‘I
bunches of leaves fhould be ftrongly marked; the fprigs»S
which arife between the upper ones fhould be kept flat i
upon the vafe; and the ornaments of the volutes muft
hot projedt beyond the fillets that inclofe them.
I Matr-X-X VI
*yr<r .
fahv/f/fr/
• ybr/fo
’ Srt>f/rt. /fou?/t '
^S'/s/. 7.
7> rr>//>
t S'///. &.
VlMi.XWW
'//'Z- /•
Zfr. ,v.
V.
* '/</. o.
VoiiTT K
Th»reX2CVni.
OillffiK
ir
U/hh/<\
u
u
a
riajeXOX.
C CMPO SITE
Vinr"
fitfi/tti'nuttxi
M/A
t-teA
<%
L
1
JL
||
ARC H I T
OF PILASTERS.
Pilasters ditFer From columns only in their plan ;
which is fquare, as that of columns is round. Their
bafes, capitals, and entablatures, have the fame parts,
with the fame heights and projections, as thofe of co¬
lumns : They are alfo diftinguilhed in the fame manner,
by the names of Tufcan, Doric, Ionic, Corinthian, and
Compofite.
The column is undoubtedly more perfeCt than the pi-
laller. However, they may be employed with great
propriety on many occafions. Some authors declaim a-
gainft pilallers, becaufe, according to them, they do not
admit of diminution. But this is a miftake; there are
many inftances, in the remains of antiquity, of their be¬
ing diminilhed. Scamozzi always gave his pilafters the
fame diminution as his columns : Palladio and Inigo
Jones have likewife diminilhed them in many of their
buildings.
Pilafters are employed in churches, galleries, halls,
&nd other interior decorations, to fave room; for, as
they feldom project beyond the folid wall above one
quarter of their diameter, they do not occupy near fo
much fpace as Columns. They are likewife ufed in ex¬
terior decorations ; fometimes alone, indead of columns.
On account of their being lefs expenlive; and fometimes
they accompany columns, being placed behind them to
fiippott the architraves, where they enter the building,
3s in the Panthaeon at Rome; or, in the fame line with
them, to fortify the angles, as in the portico of Septi-
mius.
When pilafters are ufed alone, they Ihould projeCt
One quarter of their diameter beyond the walls. When
placed behind columns, efpecially if they be very near
them, they need not projeCt above one eighth of their
diameter. But, when placed on a line with columns,
their projection mull be regulated by that of the co-.
him ns; and confequently, it can never be lefs than a fe-
midiameter, even when the columns are engaged as much
as poffible.
' The lhafts of pilafters are frequently adorned with’
flutings, in the fame manner as thofe of columns; the
plan of which may be a trifle more than a femicircle
Their number mull be feven on each face, which makes
them nearly of the fame fize with thofe of columns.
The intervals, or fillets, mull either be one third or one
fourth of the fluting in breadth.
. The capitals of pilafters are profiled nearly in the fame
manner .as thofe of columns.
OF PERSIANS AND CARYATIDES.
Besides columns and pilafters, it is fometimes cufto-
mary to employ reprefentations of the human figure, to
fupport entablatures in buildings. The male figures are
called Perjians; and the"female, Cdria'ns, ox Caryatides.
The ancients made frequent ufe of Perfians and Cary¬
atides, and delighted in diverfifying them a thoufand
ways. The modern artifts have followed their example ;
and there is a great variety of compofitions of this kind
to be met with in different parts of Europe.
Vox. I. No. 15. 3
E C T U R E. ' 353
Indecent attitudes, diftorted features, and all mon-
ftrous produClions, ought to be avoided, of which there
are many examples in Gothic buildings. On the con¬
trary, the attitudes fhould be Ample and graceful, the
countenance always pleafing, though varied and ftrongly
marked agreeable to the nature of the objeCt reprefented.
The Caryatides, or female figures, fhould never much
exceed the human fize. But the Perfians, or male fi¬
gures, may be of any fize; and the larger the better, as
they will ftrike the beholder with the greater awe and afto-
nifhment. Perfians may be ufed with propriety in arfe-
nals, galleries of armour, <&c. under the figures of cap¬
tives, heroic virtues, 6c. Their entablature ought to
be Doric, and bear the fame proportion to them as to
columns of the fame height. The entablature for Ca¬
ryatides ought to be either Ionic or Corinthian, according
as the charadter of the figures is more or lefs delicate.
Termini are fometimes employed, inftead of Perfians
or Caryatides, to fupport the entablatures of monuments,
chimney-pieces, and fuch like compofitions. Thefe fi¬
gures owe their origin to the ftones ufed by the ancients
to mark the limits of particular poffeflions. Numa Pom-
pilius, to render thefe inviolable, confecrated the ter¬
minus into a deity, and inftituted feftivals and facrifices
to his honour. In a fhort time, what was formerly on¬
ly large upright ftones, were reprefented in human fhape ;•
and afterwards introduced as ornaments to temples and
other buildings. The termini are now principally ufed'
as ornaments for gardens and fields.
OF PEDESTALS.
Most writers confider the Pedestal as a neceffa-
ry part of the order, without which it is not complete.
It is indeed a matter of little importance-whether it be
confidered in that light, or as a diftimft compofition : We
fhall therefore treat of a pedeftal as a diftinA body,^ ha¬
ving no more connexion with tire order than an Attic, a
bafement, or any other part with which it may on fome
occafions be aflbeiated.
A pedeftal cpnfifts of three principal parts ; the bale,,
the dye, and the cornice. The dye is always nearly of
the fame figure ; being conftantly either a cube or a pa-
rallelopipedon : But the bafe and cornice are varied and.
adorned with more or fewer mouldings, according to the
fimplicify or richhefs of the compofition in which the pe¬
deftal is employed. Hence pedehals are, like columns,,
diftinguilhed by the names of Tufcan, Doric, Ionic, Co¬
rinthian, and Compofite.
Some authors are averfe to pedeftals, and compare a
column raifed on a pedeftal to a man mounted on ftilts ; -
imagining that they were introduced merely from ne-
ceflity, and for want of columns of a lufficient length.
It is indeed true, that the ancients often made ufe of ar¬
tifices to lengthen their columns; as appears by fome that -
are in the Baptiftery of Conftantine at Rome; the lhafts
of which being too Ihort for the building, were lengthen¬
ed and joined to their bafes by an undulated fweep, adorn¬
ed with acanthus leaves. Neverthelefs, there are many
occafions where pedeftals are. evidently neceffary; and
fbme in which the order, were it not fo raifed, would"
t 4 U lofe
354 ARCHITECTURE.
lofe much of its beautiful appearance. Thus, in the in-
fides of churches, if the columns that fupport the vault
were placed immediately on the ground, the feats would
hide their bafes, and a good part of their (hafts; and,
in the theatres of the ancients, if the columns of the fcene
had been placed immediately on the (lage, the adtors
would have hid a part of them from the audience. In
interior decorations, a pedeftal diminilhes the parts of
the order, which other wife might perhaps appear too
clumfy, and hath the advantage of placing the column in
a more favourable view, by railing its bafe nearer the
level of the fpedator’s eye. In a fecond order of arca¬
des, there is no avoidingipedeftals; as without them it
is impoffible to gives the arches any tolerable proportion.
With regard to the proportion that pedeftals ought to
bear.to that of the columns they fupport, it is by no
means fixed. Both the ancients and moderns vary
greatly on this head. Vignola’s proportions are general¬
ly reckoned the bed. He makes his pedellals, in all the
orders, of the fame height, viz. one third of the co¬
lumn ; and as their breadth of courfe increafes or dimi¬
nilhes in the fame degree as the diameters of their refpec-
tive columns do, the charadler of the order is always
preferred, which, according to any other method, is
impofftble.
As to the divifions of the pedeftal; if the whole
height be divided into nine parts, one of them may be
given to the height of the cornice, two to the bafe, and
the fix remaining to the dye. The breadth of the dye
is always made equal to that of the plinth of the column.
The projection of the cornice may be made equal to its
height ; and the bafe being divided into three parts, two
of. them will be for the height of the plinth, and one for
the mouldings, whofe projection muft be lefs than that
of the cornice. Thefe meafures are common to all pe¬
deftals. See Plate XXX.
OF INTER.COLUMNIATIONS.
Columns are either engaged, or infulated; and,
when infulated, are either very near the wall, or at a
eonficb able diftance from it. Engaged columns, or
fuch as are near the walls of a building, are not limited,
in their intercolnmniations, as thefe depend on the
breadths of the archesv windows, niches, or other de¬
corations placed between the columns. , But columns
that are entirely detached, and perform alone the office
of fupporting the entablature, as in periftyles, porches,,
and galleries, rnulbbe near each other, for the fake both
af real and apparent folidity.
The intercolumniations among the ancients were va¬
rious. Thofe ufed in the Ionic anc} Corinthian orders
Were the pycnoftyle, of which the interval was equal to
one diameter and a half of the column; the fyftyle,
whofe interval was-equal to two diameters; the euftyle,,
to two and a quarter; the diaftyle to three, and the
arseoftyle to four. In the Doric order, they ufed other
intercolumniations, regulating them by the triglyphs,,
one of which was always placed direflly over the middle
of each column ; fo that they were either fyftyle, mono-
oiglyph, of one diameter and a half ; diaftyle, of two
diameters and three quarters; or araeoftyle, of four dia¬
meters ; and the Tufcan intervals were very wide, fome
of them being above feven diameters, which was very
practicable, as the architraves were of wood.
Among thefe different intercolumniations, the pyc¬
noftyle and fyftyle are too narrow; for although the an¬
cients made frequent ufe of them, that ought rather to
be afcribed to neceflity than choice. For, as the archi¬
traves were compofed of fingle ftones, extending Irotn
the middle of one column to the middle of another, it
would have been difficult, efpecially in large buildings^
to find blocks of a fufficient length for diaftyle intervals.
With regard to the araeoftyle and Tufcan intercolumnia¬
tions, they are by much too wide, and can only be ufed
in ruftic buildings, where the architraves are of wood;,
neither is the diaftyle fufficiently folid in large compofi-
tions. The euftyle is a medium between the narrow and
broad intervals; and, being at the fame time both fpa-
cious and folid, hath been preferred to any of the reft:
by the ancients as well as the moderns.
Vignola obferved nearly the fame proportion in all his
intercolumniations; which practice, though condemned
by feveral writers, is Certainly preferable to any other ^
as it preftrves the character of each order, and maintains
in all of them an equal degree of real folidity. Setting,
afide therefore the pycnoftyle and fyftyle difpofitions on
account of their want of fpace, and the araeoftyle for its
deficiency in point of ftrength, it may be eftabliffied, that
the diaftyle and euftyle intercolumniations, (the latter of
which, on moft occafions, ought to have the preference)^
may be employed in all the orders without diftindiob, ex¬
cepting the Doric; in which tke moft perfeCt interval is
ditriglyph; neither the monotriglyph, nor the arascftyle,.
being to be fuffered but in cafes of neceflity.
Sometimes, on account of the windows, doors, niches,
and other decorations, which correfpond with the inter¬
columniations of the periftyle, or gallery, it is not poffi-
hle to make the intervals fo narrow as euftyle, or even
as diaftyle : Wherefore the moderns, authorifed by fome
few examples of the ancients, where grouped columns
are employed, have invented a manner of difpefing them,
called by Perrault araijiyle, which admits of a larger in¬
terval, without any detriment to the apparent folidity of.
the building. This kind of difpofition is compofed of
two fyftyle intercolumniations; the column that fepa-
rates them being approached towards one of thofe at the
extremities, fufficient room only being left between them
for the projedlion of the capitals; fo that the great fpace
is three diameters and a half wide, and the little one half,
a diameter.
In periftyles, galleries, or porticos, all the interco¬
lumniations muft be equal: But in a logio, or porch, the
middle interval may be, broader than the others, by a
■ triglyph or modilion, or three or four dentils; unlefs
the columns at the angles be coupled, or grouped with,
pilafters; in which cafe, all the intervals ffiould be of the
lame dimenfions.
When buildings are very final], as is- frequently the
cafe in temples and other inventions ufed for ornamenting,
gardens, the intercolumniations may be broader, in pro¬
portion to the diameter of the columns, than ufual; be-
caufe^
r i
TlL-A.YS of TIETi C Hate XXX .
A R C H I T E
eaufe, when they are nearer each other than three feet,
there is hardly room for a bulky perfon to pafs between
them,
OF ARCHES.
Arches are not fo magnificent as colonnades; but
they are more folid, and Id's expenfive. They are pro¬
per for triumphal entrances, gates of cities, of palaces, of
gardens, and of parks; and, in general, for all openings
that require an extraordinary breadth.
There are various manners of adorning arches. Some¬
times their piers are rulticated; fometimes they are adorn¬
ed with pilafters, termini, or caryatides; and fometimes
they are made fufficiently broad to admit niches, or win¬
dows. The circular part of the arch is either furround-
ed with ruflic key-ftones, or with an archivolt enriched
with mouldings; which, in the middle, is fometimes in¬
terrupted by a confole, a mafk, ferving at the fame time
as a key to the arch, and as a fupport to the architrave
of the order. The archivolt is fometimes fupported by
an import, at the head of the pier; and, at others, by
columns placed on each fide of it, with a regular* enta¬
blature, or architrave cornice. There are likewife in-
rtances of arcades without piers, the arches being turned
on fingle columns, as in the temple of Faunus at Rome,
&c. This pradice, however, ought to be feldom imi¬
tated, a§ it is neither folid nor handfome.
When arches are large, the key-rtone fhould never be
omitted, but cut in the form of a confole, and carried
clofe under the foffit of the architrave, which, on account
of its extraordinary length, requires a fupport in the
middle. The imports of arches Ihould never be omitted;
at leart, if they be, a platform ought to fiipply their
place. If columns are employed without pedcllals. in ar¬
cades, they Ihould always be raifed on-a plinth. In all
arches, the circular part ought not to fpring immediately,
from the import, hut take its rife at fuch a diftance above
it, as is neceflary in order to have the whole curve feen
at the proper point, of view.
The void or aperture of arches Ihould never be higher,,,
nor much lower, than double their breadth ; the breadth
of the pier Ihould feldom exceed.two thirds, nor be lefs
than one third, of the breadth of the arch • and the an¬
gular pier ought to be broader than the others, by one
half, one third, or one fourth; tire import Ihould not
be more than one feventh, nor lefs than one ninth of
the aperture; and the archivolt muft not be more than
one eighth, nor lefs than one tenth of it. The breadth
of the confole muft, at the bottom, be equal to that of
the archivolt; and its fides muft be drawn from the cen¬
tre of the arch: The length of it muft not he lefs than
one and a half of its fmalleft breadth, nor. more than
double. The thicknefs of the pier depends on the breadth
of the portico; for it muft be ftrong enough to refill the,
preffure of its vault. But, with regard to the beauty
of the building, it Ihould not be lefs than one quarter of
the breadth of the arch, nor more than one third. Thefe
are the general dimenfions of arches.
OF ORDERS ABOVE ORDERS.
When, in a building, two or more orders are employ-
C T U R E. 355
ed, one above another, the laws of folidity require, tho
ftrongeft Ihould be placed lowermoft. Hence the Tufcan
muft fupport the Doric, the Doric the Ionic, the Ionic
the Comport te or Corinthian, and the Comppfite the Co¬
rinthian.
This rule, however, is not always ftrhftly adhered to.
Moll authors place the Comportte above the Corinthian.
There are likewife examples where the fame order is
repeated, as in the theatre of Statilius Taurus, and the
Colifeum ; and others, where an intermediate order is
omitted, and the Ionic placed on the Tufcan, or the Co¬
rinthian on the Doric. But none of thefe pi adlices ought
to be imitated.
In placing columns above one another, the axis of all
the columns ought to correfpond, or be in the fame per¬
pendicular line, at leaft in front.
With regard to the proportions of columns placed a-
bove each other, Scamozzi’s rule, That the lower dia¬
meter of the fuperior column fhould conftantly be equal
to the upper diameter of the inferior one, is univerfally
efteemed the heft, and gives all the columns the appear¬
ance of one long tapering tree, cut into feveral pieces.
According to this rule, the Doric column will be to the
Tufcan, as 13-j- to 14 ; the Ionic to the Doric, as 15
to 16; the Compolite or Corinthian to the Ionic, as
164 to 18; and the Corinthian to the Compofite, as
i6| to 20.
In Britain there are few examples of more than two
ftories of columns in the fame afpedt: And, though in-
Italy, and other parts of Europe, we frequently meet
with three, and fometimes more; yet it is a pradfice by
no means to be imitated ; for there is no pollibility of a-;
voiding many linking inconfiftencies, or of preferring the
character of each order in its intercolumnial decorations.;.
OF BASEMENTS AND ATTICS.
Instead of employing feveral orders one above the.-
other in a compofition, tire ground-floor is fometimes
made in the form of a bafClienty. on which the order,
that decorates the principal ftory is placed. The pro¬
portion of thefe bafements is not fixed, but depends on
the nature of the rooms on the ground-floor. In the
palace, of the Porti in Vicenza, the.height of the bafe-
ment is equal to that of the order. In fome buildings,
its height exceeds two thirds of that of the order;,
and in others only half the. height of the order. It is
not, however,.advifeabk to make the bafement higher
than the order it fupports; neither Ihould it be lower,
than one half of tire order.
The ufual method of decorating bafements is with
ruftics of different kinds. The belt, where neatnefs and
finilhing is aimed at, are fuch as have a fmooth furface..
Their height, including the joint, Ihould never be lefs,
nor much more, than half a module of the order placed,
oir the bafement. Their figure may be from a fquare to
a lefquialtera; and their joints may be either fquare or;
chamfered. The fquare ones Ihould not be broader than
one eighth of the height of the ruftic, nor narrower than
one tenth ; and their depth muft be equal to their breadth.;.
thofe that are chamfered, muft form a reftangle; and the..
breadth.
$5<5 A 11 CHIT
breadth of the whole joint may be from one fourth to
one third of the height of the fiat fttrface of the ruftic.'
Inftead of a fecond order, it is fometimes ufual to
crown the fir ft with an Attic Story: Thefe Attics
fhould never exceed in height one third of the height of
the order on which they ire placed, nor be lefs than one
cjuarter of it. Their figure is that of a pedeftal: The
bafe, dye, and cornice, of which they are compofed,
may bear the fame proportions to each other as thofe of
pedeftals do; and the bafe and cornice may be compofed
of the fame mouldings as thofe of pedeftals. Sometimes
the Attic is continued throughout; at others, it proje<fls,
and forms a pilafter over each column of the order. The
breadth of this pilafter is feldom made narrower than
the upper diameter of the column below it, and netfer
broader. Its projection may be equal to one quarter of-
its breadth.
OF PEDIMENTS.
Pediments moft probably owe their origin to the in¬
clined roofs of the primitive huts. Among the Romans,
they were ufed only as coverings to their facred build-,
logs, till Caefar obtained leave to cover his houfe with a
pointed roof, after the manner of temples. In the re¬
mains of antiquity we meet with two kinds of pediments,
the triangular and circular. The former of thefe are
promifcuoufly applied to cover ftnall or large bodies:
But the latter being of a heavier figure, are never ufed
but as coverings to doors, niches, windows, or gates.
-As a pediment reprefents the roof, it fhould never be
employed but as a finifhingto the whole compofition.
The ancients introduced but few pediments into their
buildings, ufually contenting themfelves with a fingle one
to adorn the middle or principal part. But fome of the
moderns, and particularly the Italians, have been forim-
moderately fond of them, that their buildings frequently
confift of almoft nothing elfe.
The girder being a neceffary part in the conftruCHon
of a roof, it is an impropriety to intermit the horizontal
entablature, of a pediment, by which it is reprefented, to
make room for a niche, an arch, or a window.
In regular architecture, no other form of pediments
can be admitted, befides the triangular and circular.
Both of them are beautiful: and when a confiderable
number of pediments are introduced, as when a range
of windows are adorned with them, thefe two figures
may be ufed alternately, as, in the niches of the Pan-
thteon, and in thofe of the temple of Diana at Nifmes.
The proportion of pediments depends upon their fize ;
for the fame proportions will not do in all cafes. When
the bafe of the pediment is ftiort, its height muft be in-
creafed ; and when the pediment is long, the height muft
be diminifhed. The beft proportion for the height is
from one fifth to one fourth of the bafe, according to
the extent of the pediment, and the character of the
body it covers. The materials of the, roof muft alfo be
attended to ; for if it be covered with tyles, it will be
neceflary to raife it more than one quarter of the bafe,
as was the cuftom of the ancients in their Tufcaa
temples.
E C T U R E.
The tympan is always on a line with the front of the
frize; and, when large, .admits of various ornaments.
OF BALLUSTRADES.
Ballustrades are fometimes of real ufe in build¬
ings ; and at other times they are only ornamental. Such
as are intended for nfe, as when they are employed in
ftair-cafes, before windows, or to inclofe terrafles, <bc.
muft always be nearly of the fame height; never exceed-*
ing three feet and a half, nor ever lefs than three. But
thofe that are principally defigned for ornament, as when'
they finifh a building, Ihould be proportioned to the ar¬
chitecture they accompany; and their height ought never
to exceed four fifths of the height of the entablature on
which they are placed; nor Ihould it ever be lefs than
twp thirds thereof, without counting the zocholo, or
plinth, the height of which muft be fulficient to leave
the whole balluftrade expofed to view.
The beft proportion for balluftrades is to divide the
whole given height into thirteen equal parts; eight of
thefe for the height of the ballufter, three for the bafe,'
and two for the cornice or rail; or into fourteen, (if it be
required to make the ballufter lefs), giving eight parts to
she ballufter, four to the bafe, and two to the rail. One
of thefe parts may be called a module; and, being divi¬
ded into nine minutes, may ferve to determine the di~
menfions of the particular members.
In balluftrades, the diftance between two ballufters1
Ihould not exceed half the diameter of the ballufter
meafured in its thickeft part, nor be lefs than one third
of it.
The breadth of the pedeftals, w*hen they are placed
on columns or pilafters, is regulated by them; the dye
never being made broader than the top of the ftiaft,
nor much narrower: and when there are neither columns
nor pilafters in the front, the dye ftiould not be much
lower than a fquare, and feldom higher. On ftairs, or
any other inclined planes, the fame proportions are to be*
obferved as on horizontal ones.
I
OF GATES, DOORS, AND PIERS.
There are two kinds of entrances, viz. doors and
gates. The former ferve only for the paflage of perfons
on foot; but the latter likewife admit horfemen and car¬
riages. Doors are ufed as entrances to churches, and
other public buildings, to common dwelling-houfes, and
apartments: And gates ferve for inlets to cities, for-
trelfes, parks, gardens, palaces, be. The apertures of
gates being always wide, they are generally made in the
form of an arch, that figure being the ftrongeft. But
doors, which are generally of fmall dimenfions, are com¬
monly parallelograms, and clofed horizontally.
The general proportion for the apertures, both of
gates and doors, whether arched or fquare, is, that the
height be about double the breadth.
The ufual ornaments of gates confift of columns, pi¬
lafters,, entablatures, pediments, ruftics of different kinds,
imports, archivolts, he.; and the moft common method
of adorning doors is with an architrave, for rounding
the
j /i //. fwfr .'
A R C H I T
the fides and top of the aperture, on -which are placed
,a regular frize and cornice. Sometimes the cornice is
fupported by a couple of confoles placed on each fide of
,the door; and fometimes, befides an architrave, the a-
perture is adorned with columns, pilafters, caryatides,
or termini; and a regular entablature with a pediment.
Infide-doors, however fmall the building may be,
fhould never be narrow'er than two feet nine inches ; nor
•fiiould they ever, in private houfes, exceed three feet
.fix inches in breadth, which is more than fufficient to ad¬
mit the bulkieft perfon. Their height Ihould at leaft be
fix feet three or four inches ; otherwife a tall perfon can¬
not pafs without {looping. In churches, palaces,
.where there is a confiant ingrefs and egrefs of people,
the apertures mufi: be larger. The fmallefl: breadth that
can be given to a gate is 8-J- or 9 feet, which is but juft
•fufficient for the paflage of a coach.
Plate XXXI. Fig. 1. Is a ruftic door, compofed by
the celebrated Vignola, in which the aperture occupies
two thirds of the whole height, and one half of the
whole breadth; the figure of it being a double fquare.
The ruftics may be either fmooth or hatched; their joints
muft form a re&angle, and the breadth of eacli joint may
be one third, or two fevenths, of the vertical iurtace of
a ruftic. The joints of the claveaux, or key-itones,
muft: be drawn to the fummit of an equilateral triangle,
rwhofe bafe is the top of the aperture. The architrave
furrounding the aperture may be compofed either of a
large ogee and fillet, or of a plat-band and fillet. Its
whole breadth muft: be one tenth of the breadth of the
aperture ; the remaining part of each pier being for the
ruftics. The entablature is Tufcan: The cornice is
to be one fifteenth of the whole height of the door; and
what remains below it being divided into twenty-one
requal parts, the two uppermoft of them will be for the
frize and architrave, and the remaining nineteen for the
ruftics and plinth at the foot of the door.
Fig. 2. Is a difpofition of Michael Angelo’s. The
windows of the Capitol at Rome are of this kind; and
•Sir Chriftopher Wren hath executed doors of the fame
kind under the femicircular porches in the flanks of St
■Paul’s. The figure of the aperture may be a double
fquare; the architrave one fixth of the breadth of the
aperture; and the whole entabla'ure one quarter of its
height. The front of the pilafters or columns, on each
fide, muft: be on a line with the fafcia of the architrave;
and their, breadth muft be a femidiameter.
Fig. 3. Is likew'ife a defign of Vignola’s. It is of
,the Corinthian order, and executed in the Cancellaria at
Rome. The height is equal to ‘double its breadth ; and
the whole ornament at the top is equal to one third of
the height of the aperture. The architrave is in breadth
one fifth of the breadth of the aperture; and the pila¬
fters that fupport the confoles, are half as broad as the
architrave. The whole is well imagined, but rather
heavy; and it will be beft to reduce the architrave to
one fixth of the aperture, diminilhing the entablature
proportionally.
Fig. 4. Is a defign of Seiiio’s. The aperture may
be either twice as high as broad, or a tnfle lefs. The
diafneter of the columns may be equal to one quarter of
Vol. I. No. 15. 3
E C T U R E. 357
the breadth of the aperture; and their height may be
from eight diameters to eight and a half. The entabla¬
ture muft be fomewhat lefs than one quarter of the
height of the columns; and the height of the pediment
may be one quarter of its bafe.
Fig. 5. Is a door in the falon of the Farnefe at Rome,
defigned by Vignola. The aperture forms a double
fquare. ( The entablature is equal to three elevenths of
its height, the architrave being one of thefe elevenths;
and the whole ornament on the fides, confiding of the
architrave and pilafters, is equal to two fevenths of the
breadth of the aperture : The cornice is Compofitc, en¬
riched with mutules and dentils; and the frize is adorn¬
ed with a feftoon of laurel.
Fig. 6. Is copied from a door at Florence, faid to be
a defign of Cigoli’s. The height of the aperture is a
trifle more than twice its breadth. It is arched; and
the impoft is equal to half a diameter. The columns
are Ionic, fomewhat above nine diameters high ; and
their (hafts are garnifhed each with five ruftic cinftures.
The entablature is lefs than one quarter of the column ;
and the breadth of the tablet, in which there is an iu-
feription, is equal to the breadth of the aperture.
OF WINDOWS.
The firft confideration with regard to windows, is
their fize, which varies according to the-climate, thede-
ftination of the building, In Britain, the windows
of the fmalleft private houfes are commonly from 3 to
34- feet broad ; and being generally twice their breadth
in height, or fomewhat more, in the principal apartments,
they generally rife to within a foot or two of the ceiling-,
of the rooms, which are frequently no higher than 10
feet, and at moft 12 or 13. But, in more confiderabie
houfes, the apartments are from xj to 20 feet high, and
.fometimes more; and in thefe the window's are from
4 to 5 and 54- feet broad, and high in proportion.
Thefe dimenfions are fufficient for dwelling-houfes of
any fize in this country ; when they are larger, they ad¬
mit too much of the cold air. in winter. But churches,
and other buildings of thafkind, may have larger win¬
dows, proportioned to the fize of the ftrudtures.
The proportions of the apertures of windows depend
upon their fituation. Their breadth in all the ftories
muft be the fame ; but the different heights of the apart¬
ments make it neceffary to vary the height of the win¬
dows likewife. In the principal floor, it may be from
2-g- of the breadth to 2-p according as the rooms have
more or lefs elevation. In the ground-ftory, where the
apartments are lower, the apertures of the windows fel-
dom exceed a double fquare; and, when they are in a
ruftic bafement, they are frequently made much lower.
The height of the windows of the fecond floor may be
from 14-of their breadth to if; and Attics and Mezza¬
nines may be either a perfeft fquare, or fomewhat lower.
The windows of the principal floor are generally moft
enriched. The fimpleft method of adorning them is,
with an architrave furrounding the aperture, and crown¬
ed with a frize and cornice. The windows of the
ground-floor are fometimes left entirely plain, witjiout
t 4 x any
358 ARCH! T
any ornament; and at others they are furrounded with
ruftics, or a regul. r architrave with a frize and cornice.
Thofe of the fecond floor have generally an architrave
carried entirely round the aperture; and the fame is the
method of adorning Attic and Mezzanine windows : But
the two lafl: have feldom either frize or cornice; whefeas
the fecond-floor windows are often crowned with both.
The breafts of all the windows on the fame floor fltould
be on the fame level, and faifed above the floor from
two feet nine inches to three feet flx inches at the very
moll. When the walls are thick, the breafts fhould
be reduced under the apertures, for the conveniency of
looking out. In France, the windows are frequently
carried quite down to the floor. When the building is
furrounded with gardens, or other beautiful obje&s, this
method renders the rooms exceeding pleafant.
The interval between the apertures of windows de¬
pends in a great meafure on their enrichments. The
breadth of the aperture is the leaft diftance that can be
between them ; and twice that breadth ftrould be the lar-
geft in dwelling-houfes; otherwife the rooms will not
be fufficiently lighted. The windows in all the ftories of
the fame aipedi muft be placed exadtly above one another.
Plate XXXII. Fig. i. Is a defign of P. Lefcot, ab¬
bot of Clagny, executed in the old Louvre at Paris.
The apertures may be a double fquare, or a trifle more;
the architrave from one fixth to one feventh of the beadth
of the aperture: The pilafter is equal to that breadth,
when the architrave is narrow; or lefs, by one quarter,
or one fifth, when it is broad. The whole entablature
Ihould not exceed one quarter of the height of the a-
perture, nor be much lower. The confoles may be equal
in length to half the breadth of the aperture at moft,
and to one third of it at leaft.
Fig. 2. Is a defign of Palladio’s, executed at the
Chiericato in Vincenza: Its proportions are not much
different from the following. The plat-band that fup-
ports the window is equal to the breadth of the archi¬
trave.
Fig. 3. Is likewife a defign of Palladio’s, executed
by him in many of his buildings. The aperture is a
double fquare. The breadth of the architrave is one
fixth of the breadth of the aperture ; and the frize and
cornice together are double the height of the architrave.
The breadth of the confoles is two thirds of the breadth
of the architrave.
Fig. 4. Is a defign of Ludovico I>a CigoK ; and ex¬
ecuted in the ground-floor of the Ranunchini palace at
Florence.
Fig. 5. Is a defign of Inigo Jones, executed at the
Banqueting-houfe. The aperture may be a double
fquare; the architrave may be one fixth of its breadth ;
the whole entablature one quarter of its height; and the
breadth of the confoles two thirds of the breadth of the
architrave.
Fig. 6. Is a defign of M. Angelo Buonaroti, execu¬
ted at the Farnefe.
OF NICHES AND STATUES.
It hath been cuftomary, in all ages, to enrich differ-
E C T U R E.
ent parts of buildings with reprefentations of the human
body. Thus the ancients adorned their temples, baths,
theatres, with ftatues of their deities, heroes, and
legiflators. The moderns ftill preferve the fame cuftom,
placing in their churches, palaces,-ftatues of illu-
ftrious perfons, and even groups compofed of various fi¬
gures, reprefenting occurrences collected from hiftory,
rabies, err. Sometimes thefe ftatues or grottps are de¬
tached, raifed on pedtftals, and placed contiguous to the
walls of a building, or in the middle of a room, court,
or public fquare. But they are moft frequently placed
in cavities made in the walls, called niches. Of thefe
there are two forts; the one formed like an arph in its
elevation, and femicircular or femielliptical in its plan;
the other is a parallelogram both in its plan and elev
vation.
The proportion of both thefe niches depends on the
charader of the ftatues, or the general form of the
groups placed in them. The loweft are at leaft a double
fquare in height; and the higheft never exceed 24 t>f
their breadth.
With regard to the manner of decorating them, when
they are alone in a compofition, they are generally in-
clofed in a pannel, formed and proportioned like the a-
perture of a window, and adorned in the fame manner.
In this cafe, the niche is carried quite down to the bot¬
tom ; but on the lides and at the top, a fmall fpace is
left between the niche and the architrave of the pannel.
And when niches are intermixed with windows, they
may be adorned in the fame manner with the windows,
provided the ornaments be of the fame figure and dimen-
fions with thofe of the windows.
The fize of the ftatues depends on the dimenfions of
the niches. They Ihould neither be fo large as to have
the appearance of being rammed into the niches, as in
Santa Maria Majore at Rome; nor fo narrow as to feem
loft in them, as in the Panthaeon. The diftance between
the outline of the ftatue and fide of the niche fliouhl
never be lefs than one third of a head, nor more than
one half, whether the niche be fquare or arched; and
when it is fquare, the diftance from the top of the head
to the ceiling of the niche ftiould not be greater than the
diftance on the fides. Statues are generally raifed on a
plinth, the height of which may be from one third to
one half of a head ; and fometimes, where the niches
are large, the ftatues may be raifed on fmall pedeftals.
The charadter of the ftatue ftiould always correfpond
with the character of the architedhire with which it is
furrounded. Thus, if the order be Doric, Hercules,
Jupiter, Mars, yEfculapius, and all male ftatues repre¬
fenting beings of a robuft and grave nature, may be in¬
troduced; if Ionic, then Apollo, Bacchus, <bc.\ and if
Corinthian, Venus, Flora, and others of a delicate na¬
ture, fnould be employed.
OF CHIMNEY-PIECES.
Among the ancients, there are very few examples of
chimney-pieces to be met with. Neither the Italians
nor French have excelled in compofitions of this kind.
Britain, by being pofleffed cf many able fculptors at
different
A R C H I T
different times,' has furpaffed all other nations, both in
tafte of ddign, and workmanihip.
The fize of the chimney muft be regulated by the di-
ijienfions of the room where it is placed. In the fmalleft
apartments, the breadth of the aperture (hould never be
lefs than three feet, to three feet fix inches. In rooms
from 20 to 24 feet fquare, or of equal fuperficial dimen-
fions, it may be from 4 to 44 feet broad; in thofe of
24 to 27, from 44 to 5; and, in fuch as exceed thefe
dimenfions,' the aperture may even be extended to 54 or
6 feet.
The chimney Ihculd always be fituate lb as to be im¬
mediately feen by thofe who enter the room. The mid¬
dle of the partition wall is the moft proper place in halls,
falons, and other rooms of paffage; but in drawing¬
rooms, drefling-rooms, and the like, the middle of the
back wall is the befi fituation. In bed-rooms, the chim¬
ney is always in the middle of one of the parti tion-walls ;
and in clofets, and other very fmall places, to fave room,
it is put in a corner. Where-ever two chimneys are ufed
in the fame room, they fhould be placed either dire&ly
facing each other, if in different walls, or at equal di-
ftances from the centre of the wall in which they both
The proportion of the apertures of chimney-pieces of
a moderate fize is generally a perfedt .fquare; in fmall
ones, it is a trifle higher; and in large ones, a trifle
lower. Their ornaments confift in architraves, frizes,
cornices, columns, pilafters, termin’, caryatides, con-
foles, and all kinds of ornaments of fculpture, reprefent-
ing animals and vegetables, foe. likewife yafes, cha¬
lices, trophies of arms, foe. In defigniiig them, regard
mufl: be had to the nature of the place w'here they are
to be employed. Such as are intended for halls, fa-
ions, guard-rooms, galleries, and other large places,
muft be compofed of large parts, few in number, of
diftindt and fimple forms, and having a bold relief; but
chimney-picces for drawing-rooms, drdling-rooms, foe.
may be of a more delicate and complicated nature.
Chimney-pieces are compofed of wood, ftone, or mar¬
ble ; the laft of which ought to be preferred, as figures
or profiles are bell reprefented in a pure white.
Plate XXXIII. Fig. t, 2, 3, and 4. are different de-
figns for chimney-pieces by Palladio and Inigo Jones.
Their proportion may be gathered from the defigns,which
are accurately executed.
OF THE PROPORTION'S OF ROOMS.
The proportions of rooms depend in a great meafure
on their, ufe, and adtual dimenfions : But, with regard
to beauty,, all figures, from, a fquare to a. fefquialteral,
may be emloyed for the plan.
The height of rooms depends on their figure. Elat
ceiled ones may be lower than thofe that are coved. If
their plan be a fquare, their height {hould. not exceed
five fixths, of the fide, nor be lefs than four fifths; and
when it is oblong, their height may be equal to their
breadth. But coved rooms, if fquare,. muft be as high
as broad ; and when oblong, they may have their height
equal to their breadth, more one fifth, one quarter, or
E C T U R E. 359
even one third of the difference between the length and
breadth: And galleries {hould at leaft be in height one
and one third of their breadth, and at moft one and a
half, or one and three fifths.
The coldnefs the Britifti climate is a ftrong objection
to high rooms; fo that it is not uncommon to fee the
moft magnificent apartments not above 15, 16, or at molt
18 feet high ; though the extent of the rooms would re¬
quire a much more confiderable elevation. But, where
beauty is aimed at, this practice ought not to be imi^
tated.
When rooms are adorned with an intire order, the en¬
tablature fnould never exceed one fixth of the whole
height in flat-ceiled rooms, and one fixth of the upright
part in coved ones; and when there are neither columns
nor pilafters, but only an entablature, its height fhould
not he above one feventh of thefe heights. If the rooms
be finiflied with a fimple cornice, it {hould never exceed
one fourteenth, nor ever lefs than one fifteenth part of
the above-mentioned height..
OF CEILINGS.
Ceilings are either flat, or coved, in different man¬
ners. The fimpleft of the flat kind are thofe adorn¬
ed with large compartments, furrounded with one or
feveral mouldings, either let into the ceiling, or projecr
ting beyond its furface: And when the mouldings that
form the compartments are enriched,, and fome of the
compartments adorned with well-executed ornaments,.
fuch ceilings have a good effedt, and are very proper for
common dwelling-houfes, and all low apartments. Their
ornaments and mouldings do not require a bold relief;
but, being near the eye, they muft be finiflied with tafte
and neatnefs. For higher, rooms, a flat ceiling which
has the appearance of being compofed of various joifts
framed into each other, and forming, compartments of
various geometrical figures, fnould be employed. The
fides of the joifts forming the compartments are general¬
ly adorned with mouldings, and reprefent either a fimple.
architrave, or an architrave-cornice, according to the
fize of the compartments and the height of the room..
Coved ceilings are more expenfive; but they are liker-
w fe more beautiful. They are ufed promifeuoufly in
large and fmall rooms, and occupy from one fifth to one
third of the height of the room. If the room be low
in proportion to its breadth, the cove muft likewife be
low; and when it is high, the cove muft be fo likewife :
By which means the excefs of the height will be rendered
lefs perceptible. But, where the architeft is.at liberty
to proportion the height of the room to its fuperficial di¬
menfions, the moft eligible proportion for the.cove is one
fourth of the whole height. In parallelogram-figured
rooms, the middle of the ceiling is generally formed into
a large flat pannel. This pannel,. with die border that
furrounds it, may occupy from one half to. three fifths of
the breadth of the room, The figure of the cove is
commonly either a quadrant of a.circle or .of an ellipfe,
taking its rife a little above the cornice, and finilhing at
the border round the great pannel in the centre. The ;
border projects.fomewhat beyond the. coves on.the out-
Gdee
366 ARC II I T
fide; and, on tine fide towards the pannel, it is general¬
ly made of a fufficient depth to admit the ornaments of an
architrave, or architrave and cornice.
In Britain, circular rooms are not much in ufe; but
they are very beautiful. Their height muft be the fame
with that of fquare rooms; their ceilings may be flat;
but they are handfomer when coved, or of a concave
form.
Arcs doubkctux, or foflits of arches, when narrow,
are ornamented with guillochh, or frets; but, when
broad, they may be adorned in a different manner.
' When the profiles of the room are gilt, the ceilings
ought likwife to be gilt. The ufual method is to gild all
the ornaments, and to leave the grounds white, pearl co¬
lour, light blue, or of any other tint proper to fet off
the gilding to advantage. Painted ceilings, fo common
in France And. Italy, are but little ufed in Britain.
OF - S T AI P. S AND STAIR-CASES,
There are many kinds of Hair-cafes ; for in fome the
Heps are made Hi aight; in others, winding; in others mixt'
of both. Of Hr aight Hairs, fome fly direfdy forward;
others are fquare; others triangular. Others are called
French flights, or winding-Hairs, (which in general are
called fpiral or cockle-Hairs); of which fome at e fquare;
fome circular, or round; and fome elliptical, or oval;
and thefe again are various; for fome wind about a fo-
lid, others about an open newel. Stairs mixt of Hraight
and winding Heps are alfo of various kinds; fome are
called dog-leggedfome there are that wind about a
{olid newel ; and others .that fly about a fquare open
newel. ** ' . _
Great care ought to be taken in placing of the Hair-
cafe in any building; and therefore Hair-cafes ought to
be defcribed, and accounted for juHly, when the plan of
a building is made. For want of this, fometimes unpar¬
donable errors have been committed: Such as having a
little blind flair-cafe to a large houfe; or, on the other
hand, to have a large fpacious Hair-cafe to a little one.
Palladio fays, in placing Hair-cafes, the utmofl care
ought to be taken, it being difficult to find a place con¬
venient for them, that will not at the fame time preju¬
dice the reft of the building. But commonly the Hairs
are placed in the angle, v/ing, or middle of the front.
To every Hair-cafe are required three openings.
Firfl, tlie door leading thereto.
Secondly, the window, or windows, that give light
to it;
And, thirdly, the landing.
Firfl, the door leading to a Hair-cafe ffiouid be fo pla¬
ced, that mofl of the building may be feen before you
come at the Hairs, and in fuch a qianner that it may be
eafy for any perfon to find out.
Secondly, for the windows; if there be but one, it
nutfl be placed in the middle of the Hair-cafe, that there¬
by the whole may be enlightened.
Thirdly, the landing of Hairs ffiouid be large and fpa¬
cious, for the convenient entering into rooms : In a word.
Hair-cafes ffiouid be fpkeious, light, and eafy in afeent.
E C T U R E.
The height of large Heps mufl never be lefs than fix
inches, nor more than feven inches and a half.
The breadth of Heps ftiould never be lefs than to
inches, nor more than 18 inches; and the length of them
not lefs than three feet, nor more than 12.
Plate XXXIV. Fig. 1. A Hair-cafe of two flights.—
A (hews the manner of drawing the ramp, which is to
rife equal to the height of the firfl Hep of the next flight,
and as much as its kneeling-, as is ffiewn by the ramp
interfering the rail of the fecond flight.
Fig. 2. Shews the Hraight rail interfering a circu¬
lar cap.
Fig. 3. Serion of two different hand-rails.
Fig. 4. Shews the manner of dove-tailing the rifer
into the Hep.
Plate XXXV. Fig. 1. Reprefents a flair-cafe, with
flights, and its landing rail.
Fig. 2. Shews the fohd part of the Hep out of which
the fcroll is formed; where a reprefents the cverfail of
the Hep ; b. The thicknefs of the bracket, with its mi¬
tring to the rifer-, and, c. The firing-board.
Fig. 4. Shews the fcale for drawing the fcroll of
fig, 3.—To perform which, take the diflance from 1 to
the centre, in fig. 3. and let it from 1 to the centre in
fig. 4.; divide that extent into three parts, then fet
four fuch parts on the upper fide of the fcale, and draw
the line from 4 to 1 ; fet one foot of your compaffes at 4,
and Hrike the circular line ; let that be divided into 12
equal parts, and. then draw lines from 4 through thofe
divifions to the upright line.
The fcale being thus made, draw the fcroll of fig. 3.
by it in the following manner.
Set one foot of your compaffes in 1, and deferibe a
Hroke at c; take the fame diflance, and with one foot
in 2, crofs the Hroke at c; then from c, turn the part
from 1 to 2, and proceed in the fame manner; for if
the diflance were taken in the fcale from 1 to the centre,
it would Hrike the circle too flat; and if taken from 2,
it would Hrike the circle too quick.
When this is well underflood, there will be little dif¬
ficulty in drawing the fcroll below fig. 2.; which throws
itfelf out farther in proportion than that in fig. 3.; fosr
this will always be the cafe when the upper line of the
fcale, which .confifls of four divifions in fig. 4. is made but
with three divifions or lefs ; whence it appears, that the
upper line of the fcale may be drawn at what length you
pleafe, according as you would bring in or keep out the
fcroll.
Plate XXXVI. Shews the manner of fquaring twifl-
rails.
fig. 2. Exhibits the pitch-board, to ffiew what part
of the Hep the twilled part of the rail contains; the
three doted lines drawn from the rail to the pitch-board
reprefent the width of the rail, which is to be kept level.
The doted lines a and b ffiew how much half the width
of the rail turns up from its firfl beginning to 3.
' Fig. 3. Shews the fame pitch-board, with the man¬
ner of the rail’s turning up. If the fides of the twifled
part of the rail be ffiaped by the rail-mould, fo that they
direcl -down to its ground-plan, that is, the upper fide
of
Tlate XX IV .
'
Plato X XX VI .
Plate XXXYLI .
A R C H r T
of the rail being firfl: ftruck by the mould, then apply
the mould to the under fide, as much back as the level
of the pitch-board fhews, by being ftruck on the fide of
the rail, and then fig. 3. being applied to the outfide of
the rail, from its firft twilling part to 3, will Ihow how
much wood is to be taken off.
Fig. y. Exhibits the fquare of the rail, with the ra-
king-line of the pitch-board drawn through the middle
on the upper fide; then draw the depth of the fide of
the rail parallel to this, and the dotted lines from the
diagonal of the rail; thefe lines fliew what quantity of
wood will be wanting on the upper and lower fides of the
rail. Set your compafles at c, and draw the circular
ftroke from the raking part of the pitch-board to b; take
the diftance a b, and transfer it from a to b, in fig. 7.
The feveral diftances thus found may be fet at any num¬
ber of places, ranging with the ftraight part of the rail;
and it then forms the width of the mould for the twill¬
ing part of the rail.
Fig. 7. Shews the fweep of the rail. The rail can¬
not be fixed lefs than one fourth part from the nofeng or
front of the ftep.
The remaining part of the pitch-board may be divided
into any number of parts, as here into four; from thefe
divifions draw lines acrofs the pitch-board to the raking-
line; then take the diftances from the ground-line of the
pitch-board to the plan of the rail, and fet them perpen¬
dicular from the raking-line of the pitch-board ; and
thefe divifions, when the rail is in its proper pofition, lie
diredlly over the divifions on the ground-plan.
In this figure /, m, and », rife as much above 0 as
the dotted line in fig. 5. does above the width of the
rail; and they fink as much below 0 as the other dotted
line in fig. 5. falls below the width of the rail; the fame
thicknefles mull be glued upon 0, though the greateft
part will come off in fquaring. The reafon of placing
the letters /, m, and n, where they are, is, that they
might not obftruft the fmall divifions of the rail-mould.
Fig. .4. Shews how to find the rail when it takes
more than one ftep. The remaining part of the pitch-
board is divided into four parts, as before in fig. 7. and
it takes in two fuch parts of the next ftep. Draw lines
from thefe divifions to the diagonal of the pitch-board,
as in fig. 7.; then take the diftance a b, and fet it from
c to d, and fo proceed with the other divifions.
Another way to find the outfide of the rail-mould is,
to draw all the divifions acrofs the plan of the rail; then
take the diftance from the ground-line of the pitch-board
to 4, transfer it from the diagonal of the pitch-board to 4
ARC
Military Architecture, the fame with what is 0-
therwife called fortification. See Fortification.
Naval Architecture, the art of building Ihips. See
Ship-building.
Counterfeit Architecture, that which confifts of
proje&ures, painted in black or white, or in colours
after the manner of marble, which is alfo called
Vol. I. No. 16. f 3
E C T U R E. 361
on the rail; and fo proceed with the ether diftances.
Now, when the rail is put in its proper fituation, c will
be perpendicular to b, and all the divifions, as 1, 2, 3,
4, he. in the rail, will be perpendicular to 1, 2, 3, 4, he.
in the ground-plan.
Fig. 6. Shews the plan of a rail of five fteps.
To find the rail. — Set five divifions, as from e to b,
which is the height of the five fteps ; draw the diagonal
h to the plan of the rail; then take the diftance e f, and
transfer it from g to b, and proceed in the fame manner
with the other feven diftances.
To find the width of the rail-mould.—Draw the lines
acrofs the plan of the rail, as at k-, fet that diftance from
the diagonal to i; and fo proceed with the reft, as was
(hewn in fig. 4.
Having formed the fides of the rail perpendicular to
its ground-plan, and having fquared the lower end of
the rail, then take a thin lath, and bend it with the rail,
as is reprefented by tu fig. 1.
This is the readieft method of fquaring a folid rail;
but if the rail be bent in the thicknefles, the nofing of
the fteps mull be drawn upon a cylinder, or fome other
folid body of a fufRcient width to contain the width, of
the rail or ftring-board.
r, Reprefents the depth of the rail, touching the nofe
of each ftep. Take a fufficient number of thicknefles
of this width, to make the thicknefs of your rail; glue
them all together upon your cylinder or templet, confine
them till they are dry, and the rail taken off is ready
fquared. Proceed in the fame manner with the archi¬
trave, marked a.
OF ROOFS.
Plate XXXVII. Fig. 1. Shews the form of a
trufled roof, with three ring-pofts, that may carry feven-
ty feet, or upwards.
Fig. 2. Exhibits an M roof, capable of carrying as
great an extent as the former. Indeed both thefe de-
figns are capable of carrying almoft any extent.
Fig. 3. Reprefents two different forts of trufles.
Fig. 4. Shews the manner of piecing timber. Some¬
times the joint may be extended as far as a, with another
bolt through it. To the right is fliewn a different fort
of joint.
Fig. 5. Shews the manner of trufling a girder. If
the trufles are full long, with the pieces b and e you
may make them as light as you pleafe.
Fig. 6. Reprefents the manner of trufling partitions.
ARC
feene-work, in the painting of columns, he. for the
decoration of theatres.
Architecture, in perfpeffive, a fort of building, the
members of which are of different modules, and di-
minifti proportionably to their diftance, in order to
make the work appear longer to the view than it
really is. See Perspective.
4 Y
ARCHI-
ARC ( 362 ) A R D
ARCHITALASSUS, or admiral-ihel!, a fynonime of
a fpecies of conus. SeeCoNus.
ARCHITRAVE, in architedure, that part of a column
which lies immediately - upon the capital, being the
loweil member of the entablature, and fo called from
its reprefenting the principal beam in timber-buildings.
See Architecture.
Over a chimney, this member is called the mar tie-
piece ; and over doors or windows, the hypertbyron.
ARCHIVOLT, in architedure, the inner centre of an
arch, or a band adorned with mouldings running over
the faces of the arch-ftones, and bearing upon the im-
pofls.
ARCHIVE, or Archives, an apartment in which are
depofited the records, charters, and other papers of a
ftate or community.
ARCHMARSHAL, the grand marfhal of the empire,
a dignity belonging to the eledor of Saxony.
ARCHQN, in Grecian antiquity, the chief magiftrate
of Athens, after the aboliihing of monarchy; and al-
fo, the appellation given to feveral officers, both civil
and religions, under the Greek empire.
ARCHOMTICJ, in chnrch-hiftory, a branch of Valen-
tinians, who maintained, that the world was not cre¬
ated by God, .but by angels called Arcbortes.
ARCHTREASURER, the great treafurer of the Ger¬
man empire, a dignity belonging to the duke of Brunf-
wick, king of Great Britain.
ARCIGOVINO, a province of Dalmatia, bounded by
Bofnia, Mantenerp, and the Adriatic fea, and called
by the Italians Santa Sabata.
ARCILEU1 O, a lute longer and larger than ordinary.
ARCION, in botany, an obfolete name of the tuffilago.
ARCO, a town of the bifnopric of Trent in Italy, fi-
tuated about 16 miles S. W. of Trent, in io°
E. long, and 46° N. lat.
ARCTAPELIOTES, a term ufed to denote a north-
ea't wind.
ARCTIC, in agronomy, an epithet given to the north
pole; and likewife to a circle of the fphere, parallel
to,the equator, and twenty-three degrees thirty minutes
diffant from the north pole. See Astronomy, and
Geography.
ARCTIC A, in ornithology, a fynonime of a fpecies of
larus.. See Larus.
ARCTIUM, in botany, a genus of the fyngenefia poly-
gamia aequalis clafs. The calix is globular, fquamous,
and hooked at the tops. There are only two fpecies
of arSkim, viz. the lappa, or burdock, a native of
Britain ; and the perfonata, a native of the Alps, <b'c-
The roots and feeds of the tappa are efteemed to be
diuretic and fur’on fib/ Beco&ions of the roots have
of late been ufed in rheumatic and gouty diforders.
AS CTOPHT LAX, a conddlation, otherwife called
Bb'dtes. See Bootes.
ARCTOPU3, in botany, a genus of the polygamia di-
eecia clafs. The umbella of the male is compound ;
the involucrum corfifls of five leaves; the corolla has
five petals; the ftamina are five; and two piftils:
The umbella of the hermaphrodite is fimpie; xhe in-
volttcrum is divided into fouc parts, is fpinous, large.
and contains many male flowers in the difle. There is
but one fpecies of ardtopus, viz. the echinatus, a na¬
tive of Ethiopia.
ARCTOTIS, in botany, a genus of the fyngenefia po-
lygamia neceflaria clais. The receptacle is briflly;
the corona of the pappus is pentaphyllous ; and the ca¬
lix is imbricated, with the leaks Joofe at the top.
There are 11 fpecies of ardotis, ail of them natives
of Ethiopia, or the Cape of Good Hope.
ARCTURUS, a fixed fiar of the firll magnitude, in
the fkirt of Bcotes.
ARCTUS, in aflronomy. the Greek name of the urfa
major and minor. ~ See Astronomy, and Ursa.
ARCUATION, in gardening, the railing of trees by
layers. See Gardening.
Arcuation, in furgery, denotes a diftortion or incur¬
vation of the bones, as happens in the rickets, drr.
ARCUTIO, a machine conlifting of hoops, ufed in
Florence by nurfes, in order to prevent the child from
being overlaid. Every nurfe is obliged to lay her
child in an arcutio, under the pain of excommunica¬
tion.
ARCYRIA, in botany. .See Clathrus.
ARDASSES, the coarfell of all the filks in Perfia.
ARDEA, in ornithology, a genus of the order of gral-
las. The general charadlers of this order are thefe i
The bill is Freight, lharp, long, and fomewhat com-
prefled, with a furrow that runs from the noflrils to¬
wards the point; the noftrils are linear; and the feet
have four toes. This genus confills of 26 fpecies;
and under it Linnaeus comprehends the grus or crane,
the ciconia or Fork, and theardea or heron, of other
authors. T he firF fpecies is the pavonina, or crowned
crane, which has an erett briftly creF, with the tem¬
ples and two wattles naked. The head is black ; the
creF is yellowiffi, and tipped with black at the top ;
the wings are white; and the feathers of the tail black,
and of an equal length. It is a native of Africa.
2. The virgo has long white fupercilia that hang down
backwards. The body is of a bluilh afli-colour, and
about the fize of a Fork; the head and prime feathers
' of the wings towards the points are black and pendu¬
lous ; the edges are red, and the pupils are afti-colour-
ed' behind the eyes, on both fides, there is a feathery
creF, which turns backwards a eonfiderable way, and is
of a white colour: The feet are black; the beak is green
at the bafe, yellowiffi in the middle, and red at the
point. 3. The canadenfis,-or brown and afli-coloured
crane of Edwards, is naked and papflious on the fore¬
head ; the body is ath coloured, and the wings are of a
reddifh or brick-colour. 4. The grus, cr common
crane of Englifh authors, has a naked papillous crown;
the prime feathers of the wings are black; the body
is afli-coloured; the prime feathers of the tail are
ragged. It is a native of Europe and Africa.. It
winters in Lithuania, Padclia : Trans Pontum fugat
et terris immittit apricis. Virg. This bird com¬
monly reFs upon one foot. 5. The americana, or
hooping crane of Edwards, is a native of America:
The crown of the head and temples are naked and
papillous;. tile forehead, nape of the neck, and prime
wing^
A 11 D
wing-feathers are black; but the body is white: The
under part of the head, as far as the lower chap, is red ;
the beak is yellowifh, and jagged at the point; the feet
are red, and the prime tail-feathers white. 6. The An¬
tigone, or greateil Indian crane of Edwards, has a na¬
ked head, and papillous collar; the body is a(h-coloured,
and the prime wing-feathers black. Behind the eyes,
there is a fmall white fpot, and the crown of the head
is alfo white. The bread: is of a greeniih yellow co¬
lour; the feet are red, and the prime tail-feathers aih-
coloured. It is a native of Alia. 7. The ciconia, or
white dork of Ray, has naked eye-balls, and black
prime wing-feathers. The fltin below the feathers, as
alfo the beak, feet, and claws, are of a blood-colour.
It is a native of Europe, Alia, and Africa; but is fel-
dom or never to be met with in Italy. The ciconia feeds
upon amphibious animals. It is fuch an enemy to ler-
pents, that it is reckoned almod a crime to kill a dork.
From this favourable treatment, they are feen in Holland
and the Low Countries walking unconcerned in the midr
die of the dreets. Storks are birds of palfage; they
Ipend the dimmer in Europe, and difappear ail at once,
and go off to Egypt, Ethiopia, fcc. before winter, and
do not return till about the middle of March. 8. The
nigra, or black dork of Willoughby, has naked orbits,
and the bread and belly are white ; the body is black;
the feet and orbits are blood-coloured. It inhabits the
northern parts of Europe. 9. The nyfticorax, or leiTer
afh-coloured heron of Ray, has a cred, confiding of
three drait horizontal white feathers, on the back part of
the head; the back is greenifh, and the belly yellow.
It inhabits the fouthern parts of Europe. 10. The pur^
purea, or common heron of Englilh authors,, has a cred,.
with two long green feather®'hanging down from the
back part of the head; the body is of an olive-colour,
and purple below; the head is of a fhining green colour.
It is a native of the Ead. 11. The cinerea,. or afh-
ecloured heron, has a fmooth blackhead, a bluifh.back,
white belly, and oblong black fpots on the bread. It is
a native of Europe, Great numbers of them together
build their neds in trees. They are faid to fly very high
before dorms. 12. The major has a black cred de¬
pending from the back part of the head, an alh-colonred
body, and a black line and Belt on the neck and bread.
It is a. native of Europe.. 13. The garzetta is creded
behind; the body, is white, the beak black, and the feet
greenifh. It is a native of the Ead. 14. The cocoi
has an afh-coloured cred hanging down from the back
part of the heady the whole body is afh-coloured. It is
a native of Cayenne. 15. The herodias is creded be¬
hind, has a dufkyrcoloured back, reddifh thighs, and the
bread fpeckled with oblong black fpots. It is a native
of America., 16.. The violacea has a white cred; the
body is variegated with black and white, and bluifh be¬
low. It is a native of America. 17. The casrulea has
a cred behind, and a blnifh body. It is a native cf
N. America. i8..The hudfrmias has a black cred on
the top of the head; the body is dufky-coloured, and
white below. It frequents Hudfon’s Bay. 19. The
ftriata has a fmall cred on the back-part of the head;
the. back is of a hoary grey colour, and afix-cdoured be-
A 11 E
low; the long wing-feathers are tipped with white. It
is a native of Surinam. 20. The virefeens has a fnlall
cred on the back part of the head, a green fhining back,
and dufky-coloured bread. It is a native of America
?i. The dellaris, or bittern, has a fmooth head; h
is variegated through the whole body with dark-co¬
loured fpots of different figures and fizes. It is a na
tive of Europe, and inhabits chiefly the fen-countries.
It is met with fkulking among the reeds and fedge,
and its ufual poflure is with the head and neck ere<5t,
and the beak pointed dire&ly upwards. It will fuffer
perfons to come very near it without rifing; and has
been known to drike at beys and at Iportfmen, when
wounded and unable to make its efcape. It flies prin¬
cipally about the dufk of the evening, and then rifes
in a very lingular manner, by a fpiral afeent, till it is
quite out of fight. It makes a'very drange noife
when it is among the reeds, and a different and very
Angular one as it rifes on the wing in the night.
22. The grifea has a fmooth dufky head ;. the hotly is
tawny above, and white below ;. and the prime wing-
feathers have a black fpot at the points; It is a na¬
tive of the Ead.. 23. The'brafiiienfis has a fmooth
head ; the body is blackifh, with yellow fpots ; and the
prime feathers of the wings and tail are greenifh. It
is a native of America.. 24. . The alba has a fmooth
head, a white body, a yellow beak, and black feet.
It is a native of Europe. 25. The aequinoffialiis has
a fmooth head, and a white body. It is a native of
America.. 26. The minuta has a fmooth head, a
dark-coloured body, and a yellowiih bdly. It is about
the fize of the turdus, and is a native of Switzerland
and the Ead.
ARDENBURG, a fortified town of Dutch Flanders,
fituated about 12 miles N. E. of Bruges, in 30 20'
E. long, and 510 ij7 N. lat.
ARDENNE, a fored in Germany, lying between Thi-
onville and Liege.
ARDEVIL, or Ardebil, the buryingrplace of fome
of the ancient kings of Perfia, fituated in 649 bo'
E.long. and 36° N. lar.
ARDMAGH, in geography. See Armagh;
ARDOR-VENTRICULI, the fame with the Iteart-
burn.
ARDRES, a town of the province of Picardy in France,
fituated about 10 miles fouth of Calais, in 20 E,
long, and $o° 45 N. lat.
Ardres, or Ardra. is allb the capital of a ccuntry
on the flive-coad of Guinea in Africa, fituated near
the river Lagos,, in 40 E. long, and'50 N. lat.
ARE, in mufic. See At, ami re.
AREA, in geometry, denotes the fuperficial content of
any figure. See Geometry.
Area, among phyficians, the fame with alopecia. See
Alopecia.
vAREBON, a town of Guinea in Africa, fituated at tlie
mouth of. the river Formofa, in 50 E. long, and 5 0
N. lat.
ARECA, in botany, a genus of the order cf palms:
pennatifoliae. The male has no calix, but three pe¬
tals, and nine flamina; the female has no .calix; the
corolla.
( 3*3 )
ARE ( 364 ) A ft G
corolla has three petals, and the calix is imbricated.
There is only one fpecies, viz. the cathecu, a native
■ of India.
AREMBERG, a city of Germany, fituated about 25
miles fouth of Cologn, in 6° 25' E. long, and 50°
30' N. lat.
ARENA, in natural hiftory. See Sand.
Arena, in Roman antiquity, a place where the gladia¬
tors fought; fo called from its being always ftrewed
with fand, to conceal from the view of the people the
blood fpilt in the combat.
ARENARIA, orchickweed, in botany, a genus of the
decandria trigynia clafs. The calix has five open
leaves; the petals are five, and entire; the capfule is
unilocular, and contains many feeds. There are 17
fpecies of arenaria, only 7 of which are natives of
Britain, viz. the peploides, or fea-chick weed; the
trinervia, or plantain-leaved chickweed; the ferpylli-
folia, or leaft chickweed; the faxatilis, or mountain-
chickweed; the laricifolia, or larch-leaved chickweed;
the tenuifolia, or fine-leaved chickweed; and the ru¬
bra, or purple-flowered chickweed.
ARENATION, a kind of dry bath, wherein the patient
fits with his bare feet on hot fand.
AREOLA, among anatomifts, the coloured circle fur¬
rounding the nipple of .the bread.
AREOPAGUS, a fovereign tribunal at Athens, famous
for the juftice and impartiality of its decrees, to which
the gods themfelves are faid to have fubmitted their
differences.
Authors are not agreed about the number of judges
that compofed this auguft court; feme reckon thirty-
one ; others, fifty-one ; and others, five hundred. In
eflteft, their number feems not to have been fixed, but
to have been more or Jefs in different years. At firfl,
this tribunal confided only of nine perfons, who had
all difcharged the office of Archons, had acquitted
themfelves with honour in that trufi, and had likewife
given an account of their adminiftration before the
Logiftse, and undergone a rigorous examination. Their
falary was equal, and paid out of the treafury of the
republic; they had three oboli for each caufe. The
Areopagites were judges for life; they never fat in
judgment but in the open air, and that in the night¬
time, to the intent that their minds might be the
more.prefent and attentive, and that no objedl of pity
or averfion might make any impreffion on them; and
all the pleadings before them were to be in the fimpleft
and moft naked terms. At firft they took cognifance
of criminal caufes only, but in courfe of time their
jurifdiAion became of great extent.
Mr Spon, who examined the antiquities of that il-
luftrious city, found fome remains of the Areopagus
ftill exifting in the middle of the temple of Thefeus,
which was heretofore in the middle of the city, but
is now without the walls. The foundation of the A-
reopagus is a femicircle, with an efplanade of 140
paces round it, which properly made the hall of the
Areopagus. There is a tribunal cut in the middle of
a rock, with feats on each fide of it, where the Areo¬
pagites fat expofed_ to the open air. It is very uncer¬
tain when this court was inllituted, fince Demoflhenes
himfelf is at a lofs upon the point: Some think that it
was inftituted by Solon; but others carry it much
higher, and aflert it to have been eftablilhed by Ce-
crops, about the time that Aaron died.
AREQUIPPA, a city of Peru, in S. America, fituated
in 730 W. Ion. and 17.° S. lat.
AREHA, in botany, a genus of the pentandria mono-
gynia clafs. The corolla is divided into five parts;
the tube of the corolla is ovated; and the capfule is
globular, and confifts of but one cell. There is only
one fpecies, viz. the alpina.
ARETHUSA, in botany, a genus of the gynandria di-
andria clafs. The generic charader is taken from the
nedarium, which is tubular, fituated at the bottom of
the corolla; and the inferior labium of it is fixed to
the ftylus. There are four fpecies of the arethufa,
all natives of America, except the capenfis, which is
only found at the Cape of Good Hope.
ARGEMONE, in botany, a genus of the polyandria
monogynia clafs. The coroll,a confifts of fix petals ;
the calix of three leaves; and the capfule is femi-
valved. There are three fpecies of argemone, none
of which are natives of Britain. They are all a kind
of poppies.
AREZZO, a city of Tufcany in Italy, fituated in 130
15' E. long, and 430 15' N. lat.
ARGEA, or Argei, in Roman antiquity, thirty hu¬
man figures, made of rulhes, thrown annually by the
priefts or veftals into the Tiber, on the day of the ides
of May.
ARGENT, in heraldry, the white colour in the coats
of gentlemen, knights, and baronets. See He¬
raldry.
ARGENTAN, a city of France, in the Lower Nor¬
mandy, upon the Orne, in 25' E. long, and 48° 34'
lat.
ARGENTARIA creta, pure white earth, found in
Pruflia, and much efteemed for cleaning plate.
ARGENTIERE, a fmall ifland in the Archipelago, fi¬
tuated about 60 miles eaft of Morea, in 250 E. long,
and 370 N. lat.
Argentiere is alfo the name of a fmall town of Lan¬
guedoc in France, in 40 E. long, and 440 30' N. lat.
ARGENTINA, in ichthyology, a genus of fiffies be¬
longing to the order of abdominales. The generic
charaders are thefe : The teeth are in the tongue as
well as the jaws; the branchioftege membrane has
eight radii or rays; the anus is near the tail; and
the belly-fins confill of many rays. There are two
fpecies of argentina, viz. 1. The fphyraena has 15 rays
in the fin at the anus ; the air-bladder of this fpecies
is conical on both fides, and Ihines like (liver : Accord¬
ing to Mr Ray, falfe pearls are fometimes made of it.
2. The Carolina has likewife 15 rays in the fin near
the anus ; the tail is forked, and the lateral lines are
ftreight. It inhabits the frefh waters of Carolina.
ARGENTON, a town of France, fituated about forty-
five miles fouth-weft of Bourges, in i° 35/ E. long.
46° 40' N. lat.
ARGENTUM- See Silver.
ARGILLA,
A R G ( 355 ) A R I
ARGILXA, day, in natural hiftory. See Clay.
ARGO, in aftronomy, a conftellation of fixed liars in
the fouthern hemifphere; whofe number of liars, in
Ptolemy’s catalogue, is eight; in Tycho’s, eleven;
and in Mr Flamllead’s, twenty-five. See Astronomy.
ARGONAUTA, the name of a genus of Ihell-lilh be¬
longing to the order of vermes teftacea. The Ihell
confilts of one fpiral involuted valve. There are two
fpecies of argonauta, viz. The argo with a fubdented
Carina, which is found in the Mediterranean and In¬
dian oceans. This is the famous nautilus of other
authors. It lies on the furface of the water, and ex¬
tends an exceeding thin membrane, which it ufes in
fome meafure both as fails and oars; and in this man¬
ner it fwims from one place to another. 2. The
cymbium with a blunt plaited carina. This fpecies
is very fmall, and is found in the Mediterranean.
ARGONAUTS, in Grecian antiquity, a company of
illullrious Greeks, who embarked along with Jafon,
in the Ihip Argo, on an expedition to Colchis, with a
defign to obtain the golden fleece.
ARGOS, a fea-port town of European Turky, in the
Morea, fituated on the bay of Napoli de Romania,
in- 23° E. long, and 370 30' N. lat.
ARGUIN, an illand on the coall of Negritia. It lies
on the Atlantic Ocean, about 10 N. lat.
ARGUMENT, in rhetoric and logic, an inference
drawn from premifes, the truth of which is indifpu-
table, or at leaf! highly probable. See Logic.
Argument, in altronomy, denotes a known arch, by
means of which we feek another one unknown.
Argument, in matters of literature, denotes alfo the
abridgment or heads of a book, hillory, comedy,
chapter, foe. See Syllabus.
ARGUN, a river of Tartary in Alia, ferving as a boun¬
dary between the Chinefe and Ruflian empires.
Argun is alfo a city of Afiatic Tartary, fituated on the
above river, in 104° E. long, and 510 3c/ N. lat.
ARGUS-SHELL, a fpecies of porcelain-fliell, beauti¬
fully variegated with fpots, refembling in fome mea¬
fure thofe in a peacock’s tail.
ARGYLESHIRE, a county of Scotland, lying weft-
ward of Glafgow, and comprehending the countries
of Lorn, Cowal, Knapdale, Kintyfe, together with
the iflands Mull, Jura, Ifla, foe. It gives the title
of duke to the noble family of Campbell.
ARGYROPOEIA, among alchemifts, a pretended art
of tranfmuting or changing other metals into filver.
ARHUSEN, a city of Jutland in Denmark, fituated at
the entrance of the Baltic fea, in io° 20/ E. long,
and y6° N. lat.
ARIANO, a town of the kingdom of Naples, and pro¬
vince of Principata, fituated about 15 miles call of
Benevento, in 150 3s' E. long, and 410 16' N. lat.
ARIANS, in church-hiftory, a fed! of ancient heretics,
who denied the three perfons in the Holy Trinity to
be of the fame efience, and affirmed Chrift to be a
creature.
ARICA, a fea-port town of Peru in South America,
fituated on the Pacific Ocean, in yo6 2c/ W. long,
and 180 20' S. lat.
ARIDAS, a kind of taftety, manufadtured in the E. In¬
dies, from a fhining thread which is got from certain
herbs, whence they are ftyled aridas of herbs.
ARIDULLAM, in natural hiftory, a kind of zarnich
found in the E, Indies. See Zarnich.
ARIES, in zoology. SeeOvis.
Aries, in aftronomy, a conftellation of fixed ftars,
drawn on the globe, in the figure of a ram. It is
the firft of the twelve figns of the zodiac, from which
a twelfth part of the ecliptic takes its denomination.
See Astronomy, Of the fixed fare.
ARISARUM, in botany. See Arum.
ARISH, a Perfian long meafure, containing about 38
Englifn inches.
ARISI, the Indian name for the plant which produces
the rice. SccOrysa.
ARISTA, or Awn, among botanifts, a long needle-like
beard, which (lands out from the hulk of a grain of
corn, grafs, foe.
ARISTIDA, in botany, a genus of the triandria digy-
nia clafs. The calix has a double valve; the corolla
has one valve, and three awns at the points. There
are 3 fpecies of ariftida, viz. the adfeenfionis, a native
of the ifland of Afcenfion; the Americana, a native
of Jamaica; and the plumofa, a native of America.
ARISTOCRACY, a form of government where the fu-
preme power is vefted in the principal perfons of the
(late. See Government.
ARISTOLOCHIA, in botany, a genu? of the gynan-
dria hexandria clafs. It has no calix; the corolla
confifts of one entire petal; and the capfule, which is
below the flower, has 6 cells. There are 21 fpecies
of ariftolochia, none of which are natives of Britain.
ARISTOLUS, an obfelete name of a fpecies of clupea.
See Clupea.
ARITHMETICK.
ARITHMETICK is a fclence which explains the We have very little intelligence about the origin and
properties of numbers, and (hews the method or invention of arithmetick; but probably it mud have taken
-art of computing them. its rife from the introdu&ion of commerce, and confe-
Vot,. I. No. 16* 3 t 4 Z quently
366 A R I T H
quently be of Tyrian invention. From Afia it paffed
into Egypt, where it was greatly cultivated. From
thence it was tranfmitted to the Greeks, who conveyed
it to die Romans with additional improvements. But,
from fome treatifes of the ancients remaining on this fub-
jedt, it appears that their arithmetick was much inferior
to that of the moderns.
Number, which is the objeft of arithmetick, is that
which anfwers diredtly to the queftion, How many? and
is either an unit, or fome part or parts of an unit, or a
multitude of units.
To a perfon having the idea of number in his mind,
the following queftions naturally occur, viz. i. How is
.fuch a number to be exprefled or written? Hence we
have Notation. 2. What is the fum of two or more
.numbers? Hence Addition. 3. What is the difference
of two given numbers ? Hence Subtraction. 4. What
will be the refult or produdt of a given number repeated
or taken a certain number of times ? Hence Multiplica¬
tion. 5. How often is one given number contained in
another? Hence Divifion.
Tfaefe five, viz. Notation, Addition, Subtraction,
Multiplication, and Divifion, are the chief parts, or ra¬
ther the whole of arithmetic; as every arithmetical ope¬
ration requires the ufe of fome of them, and nothing but
a proper mixture of them is neceffary in any operation
whatever y and, by an Arabic term, thefe are cafled the
algorithm.
Chap. I. Notation.
Notation is that part of arithmetic which explains
the method of writing down, by characters or fymbols,
any number exprefl’ed in words; as alfo the way of
reading or exprefling, in words, any number given in
characters or fymbols. But the firft of thefe is proper¬
ly notation, and the lafl is more ufually called numera¬
tion.
The things then proper to be comprifed in this chap¬
ter are, 1. The figural notation. 2. Numeration, or
the way of reading numbers. 3. Defcriptions of the
kinds or fpecies of numbers.
I. Figural Notation.
An unit, or unity, is that number by which any thing
is called one of its kind. It is the firft number; and if
to it be added another unit, we fhall have another num¬
ber called two; and if to this laft another unit be add¬
ed, we fhall have another number called three ; and
thus, by the continual addition of an unit, there will a-
rife an infinite jncreafeof numbers. On the other hand,
if from unity any part be fubtraCted, and again from
that part another part be taken away, and this be done
continually, we fhall have an infinite- decreafe of num¬
bers, But though number, with rdpeCt to incteafe.and
decreafe, be infinite, and knows no limits; yet ten fi¬
gures, varioufly combined or repeated, are found fuffi-
cient to expfcfs any number whatfoever. Thefe,. with
M E T I C K.
the method of notation by them, were originally invent¬
ed by fome of the eaftern nations, probably the Indians;
afterwards improved by the Arabians ; and at laft brought
over to Europe, particularly into Britain, betwixt the
tenth and twelfth century. From the ten fingers of the
hands, on which it hath been ufual to compute num¬
bers, figures were called digits. Their form, older,
and value, are as follows :
1 One, an unit, or.unity, 2 two, 3 three, 4 four,
5 five, 6 fix, 7 feven, 8 eight, 9 nine, o cipher, nought,
null, or nothing. Of thefe, the firft nine, in contradi-
ftinCtion to the cipher, are cMtA. JigniJicant figures.
The value of the figures now afligned is called their
Jimple value, as being that which they have in them-
felves, or when they ftand alone. But when two or more
figures are joined as in a line, the figures then receive
alfo a local value from the place in which they ftand,
reckoning the order of places from the right-hand towards
the left, thus,
777777777777
A figure ftanding in the firft place has only its fimple
value ; but a figure in the fecond place has ten times the
value it would.have in the firft place; and a figure in the
third place has ten times the value it would have in-the
fecond place y and univerfally a figure in any fuperior
place has ten times the value it would have in the next
inferior place.
Hence it is plain, that a figure in the firft place fimply
fignifies fo many units as the figure expreffes; but the
fame figure advanced to the fecond place will fignify fo
many tens; in the third place, it will fignify fo many
hundreds; in the fourth place, fo many thoufands; in
the fifth place, fo many ten thoufands; in the fixth place,
fo many hundred thoufands; and in the feventh place,
fo many millions, tire. Thus, 7 in the firft place, will
denote feven units; in the fecond place, feven tens, or
feventy; iathe third place, feven hundred; in the fourth
place, feven thoufand, &c.
Every three places, reckoning from the right-hand,
make a half period; and the right-hand figures of thefe
half-periods are termed units and thoufands by turns;
the middle figure is always tens, and the left-hand fi¬
gure always hundreds.
Two half-periods, or fix places, make a full period ;
and the periods, reckoning from the right-hand towards
the left, are titled as follows,, viz. the firft is the period
of units!', the fecond, that ‘of millions r the third is titled
bimillions, or billions; the fourth, trimillions, or tril¬
lions ; the fifth, quadrillions; the fixth, quintillions\
the feventh fextillions; the eighth, feptiliions ; the. ninth,
oclillions; the tenth, nonillions, 8cc.
Half-periods are ufually diftinguifhed from one an¬
other by a commas and full-periods by a point or colon;
as in the following
TABLE,
ARITHMETICS. 3*7
TABLE.
3d Period. 2d Period. ift Period.
Billions. Millions. Units.
4
8 1 3,700.2 3 7,894 .678,040.
The table may be expreJTed in a more concife form
thus,
3. 2. X. Per.
Billions. Millions. Units.
813,700:237,894:678,040.
From the table it is obvious, that though a cipher figr
nify nothing of itfelf, yet it ferves to fupply vacant pla¬
ces, and raifes the value of fignificant figures on its left
hand, by throwing them into higher plages. Thus, in
the firft period, by a cipher’s filling the place of units,
the figure 4 is thrown into the place of tens, and figni-
fies forty. But a cipher does not change the value of a
fignificant figure on its right-hand. Thus, 07, or 007,
is the fame as 7.
II. Numeration.
Notation and numeration are fo nearly allied, that
he who underftands the one cannot fail foon to acquire
• the other. The method oF reading numbers, expreffed
by figures, may be eafily learned from the table of the
figural notation ^ in which obferve the following
Rule. Beginning at the left hand, and reading.to¬
ward the right; to the Ample value of every figure join
the name of its place, and conclude each period by ex-
preffing its title, every where omitting the ciphers.
6. An odd number is that which 2 does not meafure,
or which cannot be divided by 2, without a remainder j
as i, 3> 5. 7> 9> 13- . . r r
7. A prime number is that which unity, or itfelf, on¬
ly meafures; as 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17, 19.
8. A compejite number is that which is meafured by
fome other number than itfelf, or unity; as 12, which
is meafured by 2, 3, 4, or 6.
9. Numbers are called prime to one another, when
unity only meafures them. Thus 13 and 36 are prime
to one another; for no number, except unity, meafures
botlu
10. Numbers are called compofite to one another,
when fome number, befides unity, meafures them. Thus
12 and 18 are compofite to one another; for 3 or 6 mea¬
fures both of them.
11. A number which meafures another is called an
aliquot part of that other. Thus 6 is an aliquot part of
18, and 3 of 12, and 5 of 20.
12. The number meafured, or which contains the ali¬
quot part a certain number of times, is called a multiple
of that aliquot part. Thus 18 is a multiple of 6, and
12 of 3.
13. A number is called an aliquant part of another,
■when it does not divide that other without a remainder.
Thus 7 is an aliquant part of 24.
14. Two, three, or more numbers, which, multiplied
together, produce another number, are called the com¬
ponent parts of the number produced. Thus 3 and 4,
2 and 6, are the component parts of 12; and 2, 3, and
4, are the component parts of 24.
15. The product of a number multiplied into itfelf is
called the fquare, or fecondpower, of that number; and
the number itfelf is in this cafe called the root. And if
the fquare be multipled into the root, the product is
called the cube, or third power, of that number. And if
the cube be multiplied into the root, the product thence
arifing is called the biqua 'drate, or fourth power. See.
Chap. II. Addition.
III. Defcriptions of the kinds or fpecies of numbers.
1. An integer, or whole number, is an unit, or any
multitude of units; as 1, 7, 48, 100, 125.
2. A frail ion, ox broken number, is any part or parts
of an unit; and is exprefled'by two numbers, which are
feparated.from one another by a line drawn betwixt
them; the under number being called the denominator,
and the upper one the numerator,, of the fraftion; as
T!> _ . c ‘ . . .
3. A tnixt numb'er is an integer with a fraction joined
to it; as 4$, 7|, 48f.
4. A number is faid to me after e another number,
when it is contained in that other number a certain num¬
ber of times, or when it divides that other number with¬
out any remainder. Thus, 3 meafures 6, 9, or 12.
5. An even number is that which is meafured by 2,
or which 2 divides without any reiftainder; as 2, 4, 6, S',
10; 12-
Addition is the colleding of two or more numbers
into one fum or total.
I. Addition of Integers.
Rule I. Set figures of like places under other, wz...
units under units, tens under tens, <bc.
II. Beginning at the lowed: place, fet down the right-
hand figures of the fum of every column, and carry the:
reft as fo many units to the next fhperior place.
Examp.- I. Becaufe fimrlar or like things only can
be added, place the numbers as diredted in Rule I. viz.
units under units, tens under tens, as in the
margin. Them beginning at the'l6weft‘place, 453
viz. that of units ; fay, 4 units and 3 units make 234
7 units, which fet below in the place of units';  
then 3 tens and 5 tons make 8 tens, which fet be- 68 jr.
low in the place of tens; then 2'hundreds and 4-
hundreds make 6 hundreds, which fet below in die place r
off
TICK.
36$ A R I T II
•of hundreds, and you will find the fum or total to be (58 7.
Examp. II. Having placed the numbers, units un¬
der units, &c. as in the margin, fay 2 and 1
make 3, and 3 make 6, and 4 make 10; which 5974
being juft 1 ten, and nothing over, fet the right- 9803
hand figure o in the place of units ; and becaufe 7541
ten in any lower place makes but one in the next 862
fuperior place, carry 1 ten, as direfted in Rule II. 
faying, 1 ten, colledVed out of the units, and 6 24180
tens, make 7 tens, and 4 make 11, and o makes but
ftill 11, and 7 make i3 ; here again fet down the right-
hand figure 8, in the place of tens, and carry the re¬
maining figure x, being 1 hundred, to the next place,
viz. that of hundreds; and having in like manner added
up. this column, the amount is 31 ; fet down the right-
hoiid figure 1 in the place of hundreds, and carry the re¬
maining figure 3 to the next place or column; which be¬
ing alfo added, amounts to 24 ; fet the right-hand figure
4 below, in its proper place, and the remaining figure 2,
which belongs to the next place, fet on the left hand,
there being no figure in the next place to which it can
be carried. So the fum or total is 24180.
II. Addition of the parts of integers, fuch as Jh'ti¬
lings, pence, farthings, ounces, &c.
Rule I. Place like parts under other ; viz. far¬
things under farthings, pence under pence, &c.
II. Begin at the lowed: of the parts, and carry ac¬
cording to the value of an unit of the next fuperior deno¬
mination ; viz. for every four in the fum of farthings
carry 1 to the pence, and for every twelve in the pence
carry 1 to the Ihillings, fyc.
III. If you carry at 20, 30, 40, 60, or any juft
number of tens, as in adding ihillings, degrees, poles,
minutes, feconds, <bc. proceed with the column of u-
nits as in addition of integers, and from the fum of the
column of tens carry 1 for every two, or 1 for every
three, be. according as 20 or two tens, thirty or three
tens, be. make an unit of the next fuperior denomina¬
tion. The reafon appears plain in the following opera¬
tions.
1. HONE Y.
TABLE.
4 farthings^ Y 1 penny
12 pence C make < 1 Ihilling
20 ihillings 3 Cl pound
Marked thus.
/. /. d. f. or q,
1 = 20 = 240 = 960
Note, The above mark fignifies equal to.
1. is pu£ for libra, a pound; d. tax denarius, a penny;
and q. for quadrans, a fourth-part; but f is now the
more ufual mark for farthings.
That the learner may proceed in addition of money
with the greater eafe, it will be proper he get the fol¬
lowing table by heart.
M E
M 0 N E Y-T AB L E.
12=3
16=4
20 = 5
24 = 6
28 = 7
32 = 8
36 = 9
40 = 10
12 = 1
24 = 2
36 = 3
48 = 4
60 = 5
72 = 6
84 = 7
96 = 8
108 = 9
120 = 10
40 :
60 :
80 :
IOO :
120 :
140 :
160 :
180 :
200 :
Examp. Having, according to (10) (20) (12) (4)
/•
3
Rule I. placed like parts under L.
other, viz. farthings under far- 74
things, pence under pence, be. 96
and in each of thefe denomina- 58 17 81
tions, units under units, tens 63 11 92
under tens, as in the margin, 
begin with the loweft of the parts, 293 18 4
viz. the farthings ; and fay, 2
farthings and 1 farthing make 3 farthings, and 2 make y,
and 3 make 8; which, by the money-table, is 2 fours,
or 2 pence, and nothing over; wherefore place o be¬
low in the place of farthings, or rather leave that place
blank, and carry 2 pence to the place of pence, as
direfted in Rule II, faying, 2. pence, colledted out of
the farthings, and 9 make 11, and 8 make 19, and x
(palling the o) make 20; to this fum of units add the
tens. Thus, 20 and 1 ten make 3©, and 1 ten more
make.40 pence; which, by the money-table, is 3 twelves,
or 3 Ihillings, and 4 pence over; thefe 4 pence fet be¬
low in the place of pence, and carry 3 Ihillings to the
place of ftrillings. Thus, 3 Ihillings, colledted out of
the pence, and 1 Hulling make 4, and 7 make ir, and
9 make 20, and 8 make 28 ; and becaufe in Ihillings we
carry at a juft number of tens, viz. at 2Q, fet the right-
hand figure 8 below in the place of units, as diretfed in
Rule III. and carry the 2 tens to the place of tens.
Thus 2 tens collected out of the units, and 1 ten make
3 tens, and 1 make 4, and 1 make 5 tens, or 2 twenties,
and 1 ten over; and becaufe 2 tens, or 1 twenty, make
an unit in the next place, viz. that of pounds, fet the
I ten below in the place of tens, and carry the 2 twen¬
ty Ihillings, or 2 pounds, to the place of pounds ; which,
being integers, are added as taught in addition of in¬
tegers.
It is ufual to fubjoin the farthings to the L. s. d.
pence by way of fraftion, as in the mar- 74 18 ir^
gin, where the former example is tranferi- 96 9 104
bed in this form for the learner’s inftruc- 58 17 8 ‘
tion ; in which \ denotes one farthing, 4 63 11 94
two farthings, and 4 three farthings.  —
293 18 4
In adding up large accounts, fome dot at 60 in the
pence, and for every dot carry y to the fhillings; and
in adding the Ihillings they dot likewife at 60, and for
every dot carry 3 to the pounds. Others chufe to divide
them
A R
T H M E T I C K.
i69
them into parcels, then cart: up each parcel feparately,
and afterwards add the fums of the feveral parcels into
one total.
2. AVOIRDUPOIS WEIGHT.
TAB
16 drams
i6 ounces
28 pounds
4 quarters
20 hundreds
Marked thus.
r. C. lb- 6Z- dr-
1 = 20 = 80 = 2240 = 35840 = 573440
1 = 4 = 112 = 1792 = 28672
By Avoirdupois weight are weighed butter, cheefe,
rofin, wax, pitch, tar, tallow, foap, fait, hemp, flax,
beef, brafs, iron, fteel, tin, copper, lead, allum, and
all grocery wares.
Note, 19-rC. of lead make a fodder.
In adding the following example, begin with the
ounces, and fay, 15 and 10 make 25; which being a-
bove 16, dot, and carry away the excefs 9, faying, 9
of excefs and 6 make 15, and 8 make 23 ; where again
dot, and carry away the excefs -7, faying, 7 and 2 is
9, and 1 ten on the left is 19; where dot, and proceed
with the excefs 3, faying, 3 and 4 is 7, and 1 ten op^the
left is 17; where dot, and carry the excefs 1, fajrihg, 1
and 5 is 6, and 1 ten on the left is 16 ; where again
dot, and there being no excefs, you have nothing to
fet down.
(10) (20) (4) (28) <16)
“ C. lb. oz.
8
T.
74
85
68
52
5°
48
97
27.
24.
20
19.
18.
16
3
15
478 15 3 20
Proceed now to add the pounds ; faying 5 carried
from the ounces, viz. one for every dot, and 3 make
8, and 6 make 14, and 1 ten on the left is 24, and 8
make. 32; which being above 28, dot, and go on, fay¬
ing, 4 of excefs and 1 ten on the left is 14, and 9 is 23,
and 1 ten on the left is 33; where again dot, and go
on, faying, 5 of excefs and 20 is 25, and 4 is 29 ; where
dot, and proceed, faying, 1 of excefs and 2 tens on the
left make 21, and 7 make 28 ; where dot, and the 2
tens, or 20, on the left, fet below.
We Ihould now proceed to add the quarters ; faying,
4 carried from the pounds and 1 make 5, 6v.; but as
you carry here 1 for every four, the quarters are added
exactly as the farthings in addition of money. In the
hundreds you carry at 20; which, therefore, are added
as {hillings. The tuns are integers; and added accord¬
ingly.
Vol. I. No. 16. 3
III. Proof of A adit ion.
Addition may be proved feveral ways.
1. Merchants and men of bufinefs ufually add each
column firft upwards, and then downwards, and, upon
finding the fum to be the fame both ways, they conclude
the work to be right: and this is all the proof that their
time, or the hurry of bufinefs, will admit of.
2. It is a common practice in fchools, to prove the
work by a fecond fumming without the top-line; and if
thus fum added to the top-line makes the firlt total, the
work is fuppofed to be right; as in the following ex¬
ample.
L. t. d.
Top-line 748 15 io|
674 13 114-
835 17 9i
90 18 8
Total
2350
~ 34-
Total without the top-line 1601 10 4!
Proof 2350 6 3-j-
Nofe, This mark + fignifies added to.
3. Addition is alfo proved by carting out the 9’s; for
if the excefs above the 9’s in the total be
the fame as the excefs in the items, the 347 j
work may be prefumed right. Thus, to 684
prove the example in the margin, begin   j/v.
with the items, and fay, 3+4 = 7, and 1031 5
7 + 7=14=1 + 4 = 5; with this 5 pafs
to the next item, and fay, 5+6=11 = 1 + 1 =2, and
2 + 8=10=1, and 1+4 = 5; which 5 being the ex¬
cefs of the items, place at the top of the crofs, and
proceed to cart the 9’s out of the total, faying, 1+3=4,
and 4+1=5; which 5, being the excels of the total,
place at the foot of the crofs; and becaufe it is the
fame with the figure at the top, you conclude the work
to be right.
If the items are of different denominations ; as pounds,
{hillings, pence, fac.; you muft begin with the higheft
denomination; and, after carting out the 9*5, reduce the
excefs to the next inferior denomination; and then cart¬
ing out the 9’s, reduce the excefs to the next inferior
denomination ; proceed in like manner with this, and all
the other lower denominations, placing the lart excefs at
the top of the crofs; then, in the fame manner, cart the
9’s out of the total, placing the excefs at the foot of the
crofs; and if the figure at the foot and top be the fame,
the work may be prefumed right.
If any operation, whether in addition, fubtrailion,
multiplication, or divifion, be right, this kiqd of proof
will always fhow it to be fo; but if an operation be
wrong, by a figure or figures being mifplaced, or by
mifcounting 9, or any juft number of 9’s, this kind of
proof will not difcover the miftake.
t
5 A
370
A R I T H
Chap. III. Subtraction.
Subtraction is the taking a leffer number from, a
greater, in order to difcover their difference, or the
remainder.
I. Subtraction' of integers.
Rule I. Set figures of like place under other, viz*
units under units, tens under tens, and the greater
of the given numbers uppermoft.
II. Beginning at the place of units, take the lower fi¬
gures from thofe above, borrowing and paying ten, as
need requires, and write the remainders below.
Examp. I. Becaufe firailar or like things only can
be fubtratted, place the
S67. major, or minuend. numbers as dire&ed in
562 mipor, or fubtrahend. Rule I. viz. units under
  units, tens under tens,
3.05 difference, or remainder. &c. and the greateft up-
permofl, as in the margin.
Then, beginning at the place of units, fay, 2 units from
'7 units, and 5 units remain which fet below in die
place of units ; then 6 tens from 6 tens, and nothing re¬
mains ; wherefore fet o below, in the place of tens;
then 5 hundred from 8 hundred, and 3 hundred remain;
which fet below, in the place of hundreds ; and you will
find the total difference or remainder to be 305.
II. Having placed the numbers, units under units, dr.
as in the margin, fay, 5 units from. 2 units, you
7432 cannot, but, becaufe an unit in the next fuperior
278^ place makes ten in this place, you mult borrow
 1, viz. 1 ten, from the faid next place, as direc-
4647 ted in Rule II. ; which 1 ten being added to 2
makes 12 ; then fay, 5 from 12, and 7 remains ;
which 7 fet below in the place of units ; then proceed,,
and pay the unit borrowed, either by elteeming 3, the
next figure in the major, to be only 2, or, which is more
ufual, and the fame in effeft, by adding 1 to the next
figure in the minor, thus, 1 that you borrowed and 8
make 9, from 3 you cannot, but, borrowing as before,
you fay, 9 from 13 and 4 remains; which 4 fet below:
proceed, and fay, 1 that you borrowed and 7> make 8»
from 4 you cannot, but from 14, and 6 remains; which
6 fet below: go on, and fay, 1 borrowed and 2 make
3, from 7, and 4 remains; which 4 fet below. So the
difference or remainder is 4647.
31. Subtraction of the parts of Integers % fuch as Shil¬
lings, Pence, Farthings, Ounces, See.
Rule I. Place like parts under other, viz. farthings
under farthings, pence under pence, ire. and the greater
of the given numbers uppermoft.
II. Begin at the loweft of the parts, and borrow ao
cording to the value of an unit of the next fuperior de¬
nomination ; viz. in farthings borrow 4, in pence bor¬
row 12, itc. as the tables of money and weights diredt.
III. If you borrow 20, 30, 40, 60, or any juft num¬
ber of tens, as in fubtra&ing {hillings, degrees, poles,
minutes, feconds, ire. proceed with the right-hand co¬
lumn, as in fuhtrafHon of integers; and then fubtradt
M E T I C K.
your tens, borrowing, if need be, the number of tens
contained in an unit of the next fupeiior denomination.
The reafon appears plain in the following operations.
1. MONEY.
Having, according to (10) (20) (12) (4)
Rule I. placed like parts L. s. d. f.
under other, viz. far- 73 , 15 10 2 major,
things under farthings, 48 12 62 minor.
pence under pence, ire. 
and in each of thefe de- 25 3 4 remainder,
nominations, units under
units, tens under tens, and the greater of the given
numbers uppermoft, as in the magih, begin with the far¬
things, and fay, 2 from 2, and o remains; and proceed
to the pence, faying, 6 from 10 and 4 remains; which
4 fet down, and go on to the Ihillings, faying 2 from 7
and 3 remains, and 1 from 1, and o remains; or you
may fay at once, 12 from 15, and 3 remains; which 3
being fet down, proceed to the pounds, which are inte¬
gers, and fubtra&ed as fuch.
In this example fay, 3 farthings from 1 farthing you
caimot, but as dire<5ted in
Rule II. you fay, 3 from (10) (.20) (12)
4, the number of farthings L. s. d.
in 1 penny borrowed, and 708 14 6j major.
1 remains; which 1 added 170 17 10^ minor.
to 1 in the ma}or gives 2 
farthings for a remain- 429 16 7- remainder,
der; which fet down, and
proceed to the pence, faying, 1 penny borrowed and ia
make u, which from 6 you cannot, but from 12, the
number of pence in 1 {hilling, and x remains; which 1
added to 6 in the major gives a remainder of 7 ; which
fet down, and go on to the {hillings ; and becaufe in fub-
tra<5ling {hillings we borrow a juft number of tens, viz.
2 tens, or 20, work as direfted in Rule III.; and in the
right-hand column fay, 1 borrowed and 7 make 8, which
from 4 you cannot, but from 14, and 6 remains; which
being fet down, go on to the left-hand column, and fay,
1 borrowed and 1 make 2, which from 1 you cannot,
but from 2, the number of tens in 1 pound, and nothing
remains, which o added to 1 in the major gives 1 for
a remainder; which fet down, and proceed to the
pounds, faying, 1 borrowed and 8 make 9, which from
8 you cannot, but from 18, ire.
Note, Some add the number borrowed to the figure
or number in the major, and then fubtraft from their
fum. Thus, in the farthings they add the 4 borrowed
to 1 in the major, and then from the fum- 5 they fub-
traft the 3 in the minor ; and in the. pence they add the
12 borrowed to 6 in the major, and fubtradt from the
fum 18, ire.; but the method taught above is the eafieft
and moft ufuaL
2. AVOIRDUPOIS WEIGHT.
Begin with the pounds, and (10) (4) (28)
fay, 24 from 22 you cannot, but C. lb.
from 28, the number of pounds in 84 1 22 major.
1 quarter, and 4 remains, which 49 3 24 minor,
added to 22 in the major, gives i ^5 rem.
c -26 'for
A R I T H M E T I C K. 371
26 for a remaindsr; which fet below, and proceed to
the quarters, faying, i quarter borrowed and 3 make 4,
which from 1 you cannot, but from 4, the number of quar¬
ters in 1 C. and o remains, which o added to 1 in the
major gives 1 for a remainder; which fet down, and go
on to the C. which are integers^ faying, 1 C. borrow¬
ed and 9 make 10, which from 4 you cannot, but
from 14, <bc.
III. The Proof of Subtraction,
Merchants and men of bufinefs ufe no other proof
befides a fevifal of the work, or running over it a fe-
cond time ; hut it is ufual in fchools to put the learner
upon proving the operation, by forhe of the three me¬
thods following, viz.
1. The work may be proved by addition; for if you
add the remainder to the minor, the fum will be equal
to the major, as in the following example.
Examp. L. s. d.
major 73 15 IQ
minor 48 12 6
25 3
proof 73. .15 IQ
2. By fubtradtion; for if you fubtradl the remainder
from the major, the difference will be equal to the minor,
as follows. .
L. s. d.
5847 • major 73 15 10
2569 minor 48 12 6
3278
25 3
2569 proof 48 12 6
3. By cafting out the 9’s; for the major being equal
to the fum of the minor and remainder, if you calt the
9’s out of the major, and place the excefs at the top of
the crofs, and then call the 9’s out of the minor and re¬
mainder, as if they were item* in addition, and place the
excefs at the foot of the crofs, it is plain the figure at
the top and foot, if the work be right, will be the fame.
Only, in proving fubtraction of money, Avoirdupois
weight, <bc. care muff be taken*to begin with the higheft
denomination, reducing always the excefs to the next
inferior denomination, as taught in the proof of addition.
See the following example.
L.
n 15
major
minor
48 12
25 3 4
7
X
7
Chap. IV. M u l t i p l i c a t i o n.
under the common name of factors ; and the number
arifing from the multiplication of the one by the other
is called the product, and fometimes the faCt, or the
redangle. If a multiplier confifts of two or more fi¬
gures, the numbers arifing from the multiplic :ion of
thefe feveral figures into the multiplicand, are called par--
ticular, or partial produCtj ; and their fum is called the
total product.
Multiplication then is the taking or repeating of the
multiplicand, as often as the multiplier contains unity. Or,
Multiplication, from a multiplicand and a multiplier
given, finds a third number, called the produCl. which
contains the multiplicand as often as the multiplier con¬
tains unity.
Hence multiplication fupplies the place of many addi¬
tions ; for if the multiplicand be repeated or fet down as
often as there are units in the multiplier, the fum of
thefe, taken by addition, will be equal to the produtt
by multiplication. Thus, 5X3=15=5+5 + 5.
The firft and loweft ftep in multiplication is, to mul¬
tiply one digit by another ; and the fa<$ or number thence
anfing is called a fngle product. This elementary ftep
may be learned from the following table, commonly
called Pythagoras's table of multiplication : which is con-
falted thus; feek one of the digits or numbers on the
head, and the other on the left fide, and in the angle of
meeting you have their produft. The learner, before
he proceed further, ought to get the table by heart.
To Pythagoras’s table are here added, on account of
their ufefuinels, the prodmfts of the numbers 10, 11, 12.
r In multiplication there are two numbers given, viz. one
to be multiplied, called the multiplicand; and another
that multiplies it,, called the multiplier; thefe two go
I. Multiplication of Integers.
Rule I. Set the multiplier below the multiplicand',
fo as like places may ftand_under other,, viz. units under
units*
ARITHMETICS.
Factors
units, tens under tens, drc.: but if either or both of the
factors have ciphers on the right hand, fet their firft
fignificant figures under other.
The order prefcribed in this rule is not abfolutely ne-
ceffary, but very convenient as will appear in the ex¬
amples.
IL Beginning at the right hand, multiply each figure
of the multiplier into the whole multiplicand, carrying
as in addition, and placing the right-hand figure of each
particular product diredtly under the multiplying figure,
III. Add the particular produ&s, and their fum will
be the total product.
Examp. I. Having placed the multiplier under the
multiplicand, as directed in Rule I. proceed to the ope¬
ration, and fay, 7 times 4
94 multiplicand, make 28; fet the 8 be-
7 multipier. low in the place of units,
  and carry the 2 tens to
658 produft. the next place, as dir&ed
in Rule II. faying 7 times
9 make 63, and 2 that I carried make 65; fet 5 below
in the place of tens, and the 6, which belongs to the next
place, fet on its left hand, there being no further place
to which it can be carried; fo the produft is 658.
II. Here firft multiply the right-hand figure 8 into
the whole multiplicand, as in
the former example ; then pro¬
ceed, and multiply likewife the
6 tens into the whole multipli¬
cand, faying 6 times 2 make
12; fet the 2 below under the
the multiplying figure, viz. in
the place of tens, and carry
the 1 to the next place, as di-
refted in Rule II. The reafon why the 2 is fet under
the multiplying figure, or in the place of tens, is, becaufe
the multiplying figure 6 is really 6 tens or 60, and 60
times 2 make 120; fo that by carrying the 1 to the next
place, and Jetting down 20, the o would fall into the
place of units, and throw the 2 into the place of tens ; but
as o can make no alteration in the addition of the par¬
tial products, the fetting of it down is fafely and juftly
omitted.
III. When the multiplier has ciphers on the right hand,
as it would be evidently loft labour to mul¬
tiply by the ciphers, their only ufe being to
throw figures on their left hand into higher
places, fet the firft fignificant figures of the
factors under other; and, after the ope¬
ration is finifhed, annex the ciphers of
742 multiplicand.
68 multiplier.
59367 particular
4452 J products.
50456 total produft.
853
7 2000
1706
597i
Contractions, and fimple ways of working multiplica¬
tion of integers.
1. To multiply any number by 10, by 100, by 1000,
tec. to the given number annex one, two, three ciphers,
tec. Thus, 23X10—230; and 384X100 = 38400;
and 745X1000=745000.
2. To multiply any number by 9, by 99, by 999, tec.
multiply the given number firft by 10, by 100, by 1000,
tee. that is, annex one, two, three, tec. ciphers to it;
from this fubtraft the given number, and the remainder
is the produft ; as in the following examples.
Ex. 1. Ex. 2. Ex. 3.
Mult. 47 Mult. 627 Mult. 999
by 9 470
Sub. 47
by 99 62700
Sub. 627
prod. 423 Prod. 62073 Prod. 998001
From Ex. 3. we may learn, in general, that to multi¬
ply any number confifting entirely of 9’s by itfelf, is to
fet 1 in the place of units, then as many ciphers, fave
one, as there are 9’s in the given number; then 8, and
on the left hand of 8 as many 9’s as there are ciphers on
its right.
3. To multiply any number by 5 ; firft multiply it by
10, that is, annex a cipher toil, and then halve it: and
to multiply any number by 15, ufe the fame method; and
add both numbers together, as in the following examples.
Multiply 7439 Multiply 9856
by 5 — 74390
by 15-
add
4928o3
Produft 37195 Produft 147840
4. To multiply any number by 11, 12, 13, 14, 15,
16, tec. multiply by the unit’s figure, and add the back-
figure of the multiplicand to the produft; and to multiply
by 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, tec. add the double of
the back-figure; and to multiply by 31, 32, 33, 34, tec.
add the triple of it; and to multiply by 112, 113, 114,
tec. add the two hack-figures; and to multiply by ioj,
102, 103, 104, tec. add the next back-figure fave one :
as in the following examples..
Ex. 1. Ex. 2.
876 or multiply by 876 or thus, 876
, , the multiplier to the right hand of the pro-
61416000
IV. When the multiplier has ciphers intermixed with
figniiicant figures, omit the ciphers,
29601847 becaufe the multiplying by them would
300905 only produce fo many lines of ciphers
•  —— and fo be labour in vain ; wherefore
148009235 multiply by the fignificant figures only;
266416623 but take care to place the right-hand
88805541 figure of each particular produft di-
8907343771535 reftly under the multiplying figure.
it it thus
9636
876
9636
876
9636
241
34
8194
is, 7234
7234
7234
7234
810208
Ex. 6.
263
H9
9716
Ex. 7.
745
i-°3
76735
A R I T H M
In multiplying by 12, as in Ex. 8. it is more Ex. 8.
ufual, and equally eafy, to proceed by faying, 48
twelve times 8 make 96, and, fetting down the 12
6, fay, twelve times 4 is 48, and 9 carried is 
57; which fet down, and the produft is 576. 576
5. If the multiplier eonfift of the fame figure repeated,
as in, 222, 333, 777, foe. multiply by the unit’s fi¬
gure, and out of that product make u,p the total produft,
thus. Begin at the right hand, and firft take one figure,
then the fum of two, then the fum of three, foe. repeating
the operation ftill from the right hand, as often as there
are figures in the multiplier; then neglefting the right-
hand figure, or figure in the firft place, take the fum of
as many figures toward the left hand as the multiplier has
places ; and if there be not fo many, take the fum of all
the figures there are ; then, negle&ing the figures in the
firft and fecond place, begin at the figure in the third place,
proceed as before; and thus go on till the laft or left-hand
figure is taken in alone; as in the following examples.
Ex. 1. Ex. 2. Ex. 3.
7645 4983 38
33 666 4444
22935 pr. by 3. 29898 pr. by 6. 152 pr. by 4.
252285 total. 3318678 total. 168872 total.
6. The operation may frequently be rendered fhorter
or eafier, either by addition, fubtraftion, or a more
fimple multiplication; and the cafes of this kind are fo
numerous and various, that they admit of no limitation.
Confult the following examples and directions.
Ex. 1. Ex. 2. Ex. 3.
438 374 74<5
87 56 84
E T I C K. 373
I penny, and carry 6 to the place of ftiiilings, faying’
7 times 8 is 56, and 6 that I carried is 62, which make3
3 pounds and 2 ftiillings; fet down the 2 ftiillings, and
carry 3 to the place of pounds which are integers.
2. If your multiplier confifts of two or more figures,
multiply continually by its component parts, or by the
component parts of the compofite number that comes
neareft to it, and then multiply the given multiplicand
by the difference of the multiplier, and the neareft com¬
pofite number: the fum or difference of thefe two pro-
duds is the anfwer.
Examp. I. What is the price of 56 C. tobacco, at
L. 2 : 14 : 9^ C.
Here the component parts are 8 and 7; for 8 X 7 =
56: therefore,
Multiply firft by 8, and that produCt by L. s. d.
7; or, which will give the fame anfwer, 2 14 9^
multiply firft by 7, and then that product 8
by 8.  
21 18 6
7
153 9 6
Examp. II. What is the price of 126 yards of vel¬
vet, at L. 3 : 8 : 4 per yard ?
Here multiply firft by 6, that produCt £, /. d.
by 7, and that produCt again by 3 : but as 384
the component parts are various, and may 6
be chofen at pleafure, you would have had    
the fame anfwer, had you multiplied by 20 10
9X7X2; or by 7X3X3X2. 7
143 10
3
3066 2-244 2984
3504 1870 5968
38106 20944 62664
Work the above examples as follows.
Ex. 1. Multiply by 7, and add that produCt to the
multiplicand, inftead of multiplying by 8.
Ex. 2. Multiply by 6, and out of that produCt fub-
traCt the multiplicand, inftead of multiplying by 5.
Ex. 3. Multiply by 4, and double that produCt for 8.
II. Multiplication of the parts of Integers.
Here there are three cafes.
I. If your multiplier is a fingle digit, fet it under the
units figure of the loweft denomination, multiply it into
all the parts of the multiplicand, beginning at the loweft,
and carrying always as in addition, or according to the
value of the next fuperior place.
Examp. What is the price of 7 packs of cloth at
L. 64, 8 s. lo^d. per pack?
L. s. d. Here fay, 7 times 2 is 14, which is
64 8 104 3 pence and 2 farthings over; fet down
7 the 2 farthings, and carry 3 to the place
• ; of pence, faying, 7 times 10 is 70, and
451 2 14 3 that I carried makes 73, which is 6
(hillings and 1 penny ; 'fet down the
Vol. I. No. 16, 3
430 jo
From the above example may be deduced a general
and eafy rule for working all queftiohs of this kind ; and
is of excellent ufe when the multiplier happens to be a
number; viz.
Multiply continually fo many times by 10 as there are
figures in the multiplier, fave one; then multiply the gi¬
ven price by the right-hand figure of the multiplier; and
again, the firft produCt of 10 by the following figure of
the multiplier; and fo on, till you have multiplied by all
the figures in the multiplier. The fum of thefe products
is the anfwer.
Examp. III. What is the price of 8604 yards of cloth,
at 19 s. 64ft. per yard?
L. s. d. Price of L. s. d. Price of
19 64 1 yd, X4=: 3 18 2 4 yds.
10
9155 10 yds, X 0 =
10
97 14 2 100 yds, X 6= 586 5 600 yds.
10
977 1 8 icoo yds,'X 8 = 7816 13 4 8000 yds.
3- ^
Price of 8604 yards, 8406 16 6
t 5 B
374
R I
H M
3. If your multiplier confifts of integers and parts, the
operation is performed by a crofs multiplication of the
feveral parts of the multiplier into all the parts of thejnul-
tiplicand.
The contents of mafon and joiners work are frequent¬
ly call up by this kind of multiplication; for underftand-
ing of which obferve, that
The fuperficial content of any re&angle is found by
multiplying the length into the breadth ; and the content
of a. right-angled triangle is found by multiplying the bafe
into'half the perpendicular or height.
The dimenftons are ufually taken in lineal feet, inches,
and lines ; and the operation is performed by the follow¬
ing rules, *
I. Any lineal meafure multiplied into the fame li¬
neal meafure produces fquares of that name. Thus,
lineal feet multiplied into, lineal feet produce fquare
feet; lineal inches into lineal' inches produce fquare
inches, '&c~. '
II. Lineal feet into lineal inches produce redlangles
1 foot long and 1 inch broad, which divided by 12 quote
fquare feet: and the remainder multiplied by 12, pro¬
duce s fq u a re i n ch e s,
HI; Lineal feet into lineal lines produce redangles 1
foot long and 1 line broad, which divided by 144 quote
fquare feet; and the remainders are redangles equal to
fquare inches. :
IV. Lineal inches into lineal lines produce fmall red¬
angles 1 inch long and 1 line broad, which divided by
r 2 quote fquare inches; and the remainder, multiplied
by 12, produces fquare lines.
Examp. I. In an area, pavement, or piece of plai-
fler-work, in length 24 feet 7 inches, and in breadth 18
feet 5 inches, how many fquare feet i
TICK.
23X9=207
38X8=304
12)511(42
48
24
919 98 jioS
38X6=228 1
23X6=138
144)366(2
288
73
By Rule III.
12X7=84 „
8X6=48
9X6=54
12)102(8
96
12X6=72.
ByRulell.
ByRulelV.
Becaufe the fum of the inches exceeds 144, carry
1 from them to the column of feet, and fet down the o-
verplus, viz. 98.
The operation may be rendered eafier and fhorter by
previoufly reducing the faders to two denominations,
viz. inches and lines. Thus the farmer example may be
propofed and wrought as follows.
In an area or floor, in length 465 inches 6 lines, and
in breadth 284 inches 6 lines, how many fquare inches
and feet ?
465X6=2790
284X6=1704
12)4494,(374 '»•.
12X6=72 li.
By Rule IV.
18X7=126
24X5=120
12)246(20
24
12X6=72 „
by Rule II.
Here multiply 18 lineal feet into 24 lineal feet, and
the produd is 432 fquare feet; then multiply 5 lineal
inches into 7 lineal inches, and the produd is 35 fquare
inches, by Rule I.; then multiply 18 lineal feet into 7
lineal inches, and the produd is 126; and again multi¬
ply 24 lineal feet into 5 lineal inches, and the produd is
120; which added to the former produd, gives 246
redangles, each being 1 foot in length and one inch in
breadth ; thefe divided by 12 quote 20 fquare feet; and
the remainder 6 multiplied by 12, produces 72 fquare
inches, according to Rule II.; thefe add to the former
fquare feet and inches, and you’ll find the anfwer or total
jrqdvd to be 452 fquare feet, and 107 fquare inches.
Examp. II. In an area or floor, in length 38 feet 9
inches 6 lines, and in breadth 23 feet 8 inches 6 lines,
how many fquare. feet i
The anfwer here is 1:52434 fquare inches, and 108
fquare lines ; and if the inches be divided by 144, you
will have 91Q fquare feet and a remainder of 98 fquare
inches, as before.
Or the fadors may be reduced to the loweft denomi¬
nation, viz. lines, and then the produd will be fquare.
lines, which, divided by 144, will quote fquare inches,
and the remainder will be fquare lines y and the fquare
inches, divided by 144, will quote fquare feet, and the
remainder will be fquare inches. Again, the fquare
feet, divided by 9, will quote fquare yards, and the re¬
mainder will be fquare feet; and the fquare yards, divi-
ded by 36, will quote fquare roods, and the remainder
will be fquare yards.
If this crofs multiplication be extended to the menfu-
ration of folids, the content of which is found by multi¬
plying the fuperficial content of the bafe into the height,
depth, length, or thicknefs, the operation muft be con¬
duced by the following rules.
V. Any fuperficial meafure multiplied into the fame
lineal meafure produces a folid of the fame name. Thus
fuperficial feet multiplied into lineal feet produce folid
feet; fuperficial inches multiplied into lineal inches pro¬
duce folid inches, 6c.
VI.
A R I T H
VI. Superficial feet into lineal inches produce paral¬
lelepipeds, whofe bafe is i fquare foot, and their height
i inch ; which divided by r 2 quote folid feet; and the
remainder, multiplied by 14-4, produces folid inches.
VII. Superficial feet into lineal lines produce parai-
lelopipeds, whofe bafe is 1 fquare foot, and their height
1 line ; which divided by 144 quote folid feet; and the
remainder multiplied by 12 produces folid inches.
VIII. Superficial inches into lineal lines produce pa¬
rallelepipeds, whofe bafe is 1 fquare inch, and their
height 1 line; which divided by 12 quote folid inches;
and the remainder multiplied by 12 produces folid inches.
IX. Lineal feet into fuperficial inches produce paral¬
lelepipeds, whofe bafe is one fquare inch, aqd their
height 1 foot; which divided by 144 quote folid feet;
and the remainder multiplied by. 12 produces folid lines.
X. Lineal feet into fuperficial lines produce parallele¬
pipeds, whole bafe is x fquare line, and their height 1
foot; which divided by 12 quote folid inches; and the
remainder multiplied by 144 produces folid lines.
XI. Lineal inches into fuperficial lines produce paral¬
lelepipeds, whofe bafe is 1 fquare line, and their height
1 inch; which divided by. 144 quote folid inches ; and
the remainder multiplied by 12 produces folid lines.
Examp. III. In a piece of timber, whofe length is 18
feet 16 inches, breadtlx 2 feet 4 inches, and thicknefs 2
feet 3 inches, how many fol.d feet ?
6 2X6=12
4118X4=72
12)84(7
fuperficial
lineal
43X3=129 ■) by
i2)i29(toFA Rule
44X9= 1296/».j VI.
2X24=48 7 byR.
12X48.3*57.6/w. 5 IX.
Here firfi: multiply 18 feet 6 inches into 2 feet 4 inches,,
as formerly, and the produft is 43 feet 24 inches, fuper¬
ficial ; which next multiply into 2 feet 3 inches li¬
neal, thus, 43 fuperficial feet into 2 lineal feet produce
86 folid feet, and 24 fuperficial inches into 3 lineal inches ,
produce 72 folid inches, by Rule V.; then 43 fuperfi¬
cial feet into 3 lineal inches produce'j 29 paruilelopipeds,.
whofe bafe is 1 fquare foot, and their height 1 inch;
which divided by j'2 quotes 10 folid feet; and the re¬
mainder 9 multiplied into 144 produces 1296 folid incher,.
by Rule VI. Again, 2 lineal feet into 24 fuperficial
inches produce 48 ; which, being kfs than'144, you e-
fteem a remainder, and multiplying it into 12 you have a
product of 576 folid inches, by Rule.IX.
Becaufe the fum of the inches exceeds 1728, carry
r from thence to the feet, and the overplus 216 fet
down.
M E T I C K. 375
Examp. IV. How many folid feet in a policed Hone,
that is 8 feet 9 inches 4 lines long, 7 feet 3 inches broad-,
and 3 feet 5 lines thick ?
7X9 = 63 -v
8X3 = 24 J
by Rule II.
12)87(7 F. S
12X3=36
7 X 5 = 3 5/«. by Rule III.
3X5 = 15 A
12)15(1/». > by Rule IV.
fup. 12X 3 = 36 /i.j
lin.
63X5=315, and 144)315(2 F.? bvR yn
12X27=324 in. 5 y
3X99=297, and 144)297(2F. 7 , ,, IX
12X9=108 in. y 3 ■
3X36=108, and 12) 108(9/». by Rule X.
SX99=495,andi2)495(4ir>.7 b R vm
144X 3=432 7/'/??/. 3 ■
The operation may be facilitated by previoufly redu¬
cing the three fa&ors to two denominations, viz. inches
and lines, as was done in Example II. on fuperficial
meafure.
Or the three factors may be reduced to the lowed de¬
nomination, viz. lines, which being multiplied conti¬
nually, will produce folid lines, which divided by 1728,
will quote folid inches, the remainder being folid lines ;
and the folid inches divided by 1728 will quote folid
feet, the remainder being folid inches; and the folid feet
divided by 27 will quote folid yards, the remainder be¬
ing folid feet; and the folid yards divided by 216 will
quote folid roods, the remainder being folid yards.
We fliail only further obferve, that as the rules for
working queftions by crofs multiplication are numerous,.
and the operation tedious, it is eafier to convert the parts ;
into a decimal fradion of their integer, and then work
as taught in the multiplication of decimals.
III. T'/js Proof of Multiplication.
Multiplication may be proved feveral ways, viz-..
by multiplication, by divifion, and by calling out the 9’s.
x. By multiplication : Change the places of the fac¬
tors, and make that the multiplier which before was the
multiplicand; and if the work be right, you will have
the fame produd as before; but this method is tedious.
2. Bydivifibn: When the work is right, the produd
divided by the multiplier quotes the multiplicand; or,
divided by the multiplicand, quotes the multiplier. But
this fuppofes the learner acquainted with divifion,
3. The moft ufual method therefore of. proving multi¬
plication is by calling out the 9's; which is done thus :
Call the 9’s out of the multiplicand and multiplier, and
place the excefies on the right and left fides of a crofs;
multiply thefe two figures into one another, calling the
9’s out of their produd, if need be, and place the excefs
at the top of the crofs; then carting the 9’s alfo out of
the produd of your multiplication,.place its excefs at the
bottom;.
37^
R I T H M E T I C K.
754
2262
28652
L.
43
347
5
7
bottom; and if ths work be right, the figures at top and
bottom wiil agree, or be the fame.
Ex amp. I. Here cafl: the 9’s out
of the multiplicand, and place the
excefs 7 on the right fide of the crofs;
then caft the 9’s out of the multiplier,
and place the cxcefs 2 on the left fide
of the crofs ; next multiply thefe ex-
celfes 2 and 7 into one another, caft
the 9’s out of their product, and
place the excefs five at the top of the
crofs; laftly, caft the 9’s out of the product, and place
the excefs 5 at the foot of the crofs; which being the
fame with the figure at the top, you may conclude the
work to be right.
Examp.II. Here,in calling
the 9’s out of the multiplicand,
and out of the product, begin
with the pounds, and reduce the
excefs to (hillings, and in like
manner the excefs of the (hil¬
lings is reduced to pence, and
that of the pence to farthings. The multiplier being an
abftraft number, needs no reduction; but if a multiplier
be a mixt number, or confift of integers and parts, as
feet and inches, <bc. the excefs of the higher denomina¬
tion muft always be reduced to the lower.
C h a p. V. Division.
Division difcovers how often one number is con¬
tained in another: or,
Divifion, from two numbers given, finds a third, which
contains unity as often as the one given number contains
the other.
The number to be divided, or which contains the o-
ther, is called the dividend-, the number by which we
divide, or which is contained in the dividend, is called
the divifor; and the number found by divifion, or which
exprefles how often the dividend contains the divifor, is
called the quotient or quot.
As multiplication fupplies the place c.f many additions,
fo divifion, which is the reverfe of multiplication,
ferves inftead of many fubtradlions; as will thus ap-
— pear: Suppofe it were required to divide 18 by 6,
12 that is, to find how often 6 is contained in 18, the
6 work by fubtraction will (land as in the margin:
by which it appears, that 6 is contained 3 times in
6 the number 18. But this, by divifion, may be
found at one trial: thus.
Divi- Divi- Quo-
for. dend. dent.
7)875(125
17
14
I. Divifion of Integers.
Rule I. From the left-hand part of the dividend
point off the firft dividual, viz. fo many figures as will
contain the divifor.
II. A(k how often the divifor is contained in the divi¬
dual, and put the anfwer in the quotient.
III. Multiply the divifor by the figure fet in the quo¬
tient, and fubtraft the produdt from the dividual.
IV. To the right of the remainder bring down the
next figure of the dividend for a new dividual; and then
proceed as before.
Examp. I. Here, becaufe the
divifor 7 is contained in 8, the left-
hand figure of the dividend, point it
off as the firft dividual, according
to Rule I; and then fay, How oft¬
en 7 in 8 ? Anf. 1 time; which 1
fet in the quotient, as direfted in
Rule II.; then multiply the divifor
7 by this quotient figure 1, and fub-
tradf the produdt 7 from the divi¬
dual 8, as diredted in Rule III.; to
the remainder 1 bringdown the fol-
lollowing figure of the dividend, for
the fecond dividual, as diredted in
Rule IV.; then proceed as before,
and fay, How often 7 in 17? Anf. 2 times; where¬
fore, fetting two in the quotient, multiply and fubtradt
and find the next remainder to be 3 ; to which bring
down the following figure of the dividend, and you have
35 for the third dividual; then fay. How often 7 in 35 ?
Anf. 5 times; which 5 being placed in the quotient,
multiply and fubtradt, and o remains; fo the quotient
is 125.
By reviewing the fteps of the preceding operation, and
reducing the dividuals and quotient-figures to their fe-
parate values., the reafon of the rules will be obvious;
for.
The feparate value 7)875(100"}
of the firft dividual 8 —C
is 800; and the fe- iftdividualSoo 2C> PartiaI<luots-
35
35
parate value of 1, the
firft figure put in the
quot, is 100; for
as 8 contains 7 the
divifor 1 time, fo 800
700
100 125
70
total quot.
2d dividual 170
140
Set the divifor on the left of the dividend, leaving
room on the right hand for the quotient, as in
6)18(3 the margin; and then fay. How often 6 in 18 ?
18 Anf. 3 times: this 3 fet in the quotient; then
— multiply the quotient figure 3 into the divifor
(o) 6, faying, 3 times 6 make 18 ; which fet down
below the dividend, and fubtradt it from the
dividend, and o remains.
contains it 100 times,
and 100 remains ; to
which bring down
the following figure
of the dividend 7,
whofe feparate value
is 70; and the fe-
cond dividual is 170;
and as 7 is contained
2 times in 17, fo it
is contained 20'times
in 170, and 30 remains
or laft figure of the dividend 5; and the third dividual
rem. 30
add 5
3d dividual 3 5
35
(o)
a which bring down the next
A a I T' H M Ev T I; G K.
S7?
is 35, in which the divifor 7'is contained"^ times. Mow
it is evident, that the fum of the^partial quots, ■ 12 j, is
the total qilot, or a number'expreffing how often the di¬
vidend 875 contains the divifor 7. . . . . / :
From the above-examplex we may learn, that there
are always juft fo'many figures in the quotient as there
are dividuals; or the firft dividual, with the number of
fubfequent figures in the dividend, is equal to the num*
ber of places or figures in the quotient.
Hence likewife may be inferred, that no divifor is
contained in any dividual oftener than 9 times ; for the
dividual, excluding the right-hand figure, is always lefs
than the divifor by 1 at leaftand if both be multiplied
by 10, or have a cipher annexed to each of them, the
product of the dividual will be lefs than the produdV of
the divifor by to at leaft ; but no right-hand figure can
fupply this defect of 10therefore the divifor is not
contained 10 times in any dividual, and confequently not
oftener than 9 times.
Here too obferve, that the right-hand figure of the firft
dividual, and all the fubfequent figures of the dividend,
have a point or dot fet below them,' as they are brought
down ; which is done to prevent miftakes, by diftinguilh-
ing them, in this manner, from the figures not yet brought
1I2J! numeiv Examp. II. Here,,
8 denom. becaufe 8 is not con¬
tained in 5, point off
56 as the firft dividu¬
al, and fay, How of¬
ten 8 in 56 ? 7 ;
which put in the quo¬
tient ; then multiply 7
into the divifor 8, and
fubtraft the produft 56
from the dividual; and
as nothing remains,
bring down the next
figure of the dividend,
< v/hich happens to be a
cipher; and as you
cannot have 8 ’in o,
- • ' - put o in the quotient;
and, as multiplying and fubtrafting is in this cafe
•needlefs, you bring down the next figure of the di¬
vidend 3 ; and as you cannot have 8 in 3, put anpther
o in the ^quotient,' and bring down the next figure
of the dividend 2 : Then fay. How often 8 in 32 ?
Jnf. 4; which put in the quotient: Then multiply
and fubtraft; and as nothing remains, bring down the
next figure of the dividend 8, and fay, How often 8
in 8 ? Jnf. 1; which put in the quotient: then mul¬
tiply and fubtratf; and as nothing remains, bring down
the next figure'of the dividend 9, and fay, HoW'often 8
in 9 ? Jnf. 1 ; which put in the quotient: then mul¬
tiply and lubtradt; and to the remainder 1 bring down
the next and laft figure of the dividend 7, and fay, How
often 8 in 17?' Jnf. 2; which put in the quotient:
then multiply and fubtradl, and 1 remains.
To-complete the quotient, draw a line on the right
hand, and fet the remainder above the line, and the di-
Vol. I. No. 16. 3
vifor 8 below it,' fignjfying that i remains to he-divided
by 8 ; or this part of the quotient may be confidered, as
a frafiion,, whofe numerator is 1, and fts denominator:
8 ; and the quotient thus, completed ihews, that the di-i
vidend contains the divifor 7004112 times, and one
eighth part of a time.
. Here obferve, that not only the laft remainder, but'
every other remainder, muft be -lefs than the divifor ; for
if it be either greater pr equal, the divifor might have
been oftenbr got, and the quotient-figure is too little.
And Ihould- any one in this cafe attempt to continue the
operation, the quotient-figures would be all 9’s, the di¬
viduals would prove inexhauftible, and the remaindeis
would conftantly increafe.
Hence alfo learn, that if any dividual happen to be lefs
than the divifor, you-muft put o in the quotient, and
bring down the next figure of the dividend; and if it bo
ftill lefs than the divifor, you muft, put another o in the
quotient, and bring down the following ^figure of the di¬
vidend, 16c.
III. Here the divifor conirfts 36)789426(21928^
of two figures; and becaufe it
is contained in the two left-
hand figures of the dividend
78, point them off as the firft
dividual; and fay. How often
3 in 7 ? 2, and 1 remains;
which 1 placed, or conceived
as placed, on the left hand of
the following figure 8S makes
18 : then fay. Can I have the
following figure of the divifor 6
alfo 2 times in 18 ? slnf. Yes;
confequently I get 36 the di-
-vifor ,2 times in ,78 the divi¬
dual; wherefore put 2 in the
quotient, and multiply that 2
into the divifor 36, and fub-
traft the produft 72 from the dividual 78 ; and to tfiq
remainder 6 bring down the following figure of the di¬
vidend 9, for a new dividual: then fay, How often 3
in 6 ? Anf, 2, and'o remains; again you.fay, Can I
have 6 alfo 2 times in 9? Anf. No ; therefore you cap
have 36. in 69 only 1 time, which 1 you put in the
quotient: then multiply and fubtra<ft as before ; and to
yhe remainder 33 bring, down the next figure . 4 for a
new dividual: Then, becaufe the dividual confifts of 4
figure'more-than the" divifor,' fay, How often the firft fi¬
gure of the divifor 3 in the firft two figures of the divif
dual 33 ? Anf. 9, and 6 remains; which 6 .placed on
the left hand of the following figure 4 makes 64.: At
gain, fay, Can I have 6 alfo 9 times in 64 ? Anf Yes ;
confequently 36 can be had 9 times in 334; wherefore
you put 9 in the quotient: Then multiply and fnotrac! ;
and to the remainder 10 bring down the next figure 2
for a new dividual: Here likewife, becaufe the dividual
has a figure more than;the divifor, fay, How often 3 ip
10? Anf 3, and 1 remains; which 1 placed on the
left hand of the following figure 2 makes 12 : Again fay.
Can! have 6 alfo 3 times in 12 ? Anf. No; cpnfequent-
ly 36,-cannot be had 3 times in 102; wherefore try if
t ' ‘ 5 c
down.
8)56032897(700^
56 
x *032
32
•9
8
(1)
72
69
36
334
324
102
■- 72
306
288
$73 A R T T H M
you can have it 2 times; faying, 2 times 3 is 6 from
10, and 4 remains; which 4 placed on the left hand of
the next figure 2 makes 42 : And again fay, Can I have
6 alfo 2 times in 42 ? Anf. Yes; confequently 36 can
be had 2 times in 102 ; accordingly put 2 in the quo¬
tient, multiply and fubtrad; and to the remainder 30
bring down the next and laft figure of the dividend 6,
for a new dividual: Then, becaufe the dividual has a fi¬
gure more than the divifor, fay, How often 3 in 30 ?
Ahf. 9, and 3 remains; which 3 placed on the left hand
of the following figure 6 make 36: And again fay, Can
I have 6 alfo 9 times in 36 ? Anf. No; confequently
36 cannot be had 9 times in 306; therefore try if it can
be had 8 times, faying, 8 times 3 is 24 from 30, and 6
remains ; which 6 placed on the left hand of the follow¬
ing figure 6 makes 66: Again fay, Can I have 6 alfo 8
times in 66? Anf. Yes; confequently 36 can be had 8
times in 306 ; wherefore pm 8 in the quotient, and mul¬
tiply and fubtraft as before: The laft remainder 18 is
the numerator of a fraction, and the divifor its denomi¬
nator, to be annexed to the integral part of the quotient;
as was taught in the former example.
The preceding operation points out the manner of
procedure when the divifor confifts of more figures than
one, viz. you muft take the firft figure of the divifor out
of the firft figure of the dividual, or out of the firft two
figures of the dividual in cafe the dividual have a figure
more than the divifor: Then imagine the remainder to be
prefixed to the next figure of the dividual, and try if you
can have the fecond figure of the divifor as often out of
this number; if ypu can, imagine again the remainder
to be prefixed to the following figure of the dividual,
and try if you can have the third figure of the divifor as
often out of this number, fee.; but if you find you can¬
not have fome fubfequent figure of the divifor fo often
as you took the firft, you muft go back, and take the
firft figure of the divifor 1 time lefs, or fome number of
times lefs out of the firft, or out of the firft two figures
of the dividual: Then proceed as before, repeating the
trial till you find you have the fecond and all the fubfe¬
quent figures of-the divifor as often as you took the firft.
But here obferve, that if, in trying how often the
divifor can be had in the dividual, either 9, or a number
greater than 9, any where remain, you may conclude,
without further trial, that all the fubfequent figures of
the divifor can be had as often as you took the firft; as
may be thus demonftrated.
Suppofe the fubfequent figures of the divifor to be the
higheft pofiible, that is, all 9’s, and the following fi¬
gures of the dividual the loweft poffible, that is, all o’s ;
again, imagine the remainder 9 prefixed to the follow¬
ing figure of the dividual o, that it will make 90 ; now
it is plain, that the fubfequent figure of the divifor 9 can
be had in 90, the higheft number of times poflible,. viz.
9 times, and 9 will remain ; which prefixed to the next
figure of the dividual o, makes 90, in which the fubfe¬
quent figure of the divifor 9 can again be had 9 times,
and 9 will remain as before; therefore all the fubfequent
figures of the divifor can be had as often as you took the
firft; and if they can be had in this cafe, much more can
they be had when a number greater than g remains.
648|o)89678|2(i38m4
648
2487
1944
(2542)
E" T I C K.
IV. If, as in the margin,
a cipher or ciphers, poflefs
the right hand of the divi¬
for, cut them off, and cut
off as many figures, v/z. in
this example, the figure 2
from the right hand of the
dividend ; then divide the
remaining figures of the di¬
vidend, viz. 89678, by the
remaining figures of the di¬
vifor, viz. 648, and you
have the integral part of the
quotient; but to the remainder 254 annex the figure cut
off from the dividend, and you have 2542 for the nu¬
merator of your fraftion, and the whole divifor 6480 is
the denominator.
The reafon will appear obvious by working a queftion in
this manner, and alfo at full length, without cutting off the
cipher or ciphers, and then comparing the two operations.
V. If, as in the margin, the 48|oo)978o|oci(203.-|:^
figures cut off from the right ....
hand of the dividend, happen to 96
be all ciphers; in this cafe, the ■■■., •.
laft remainder, without regard- 180
ing the ciphers cut off, is the 144
numerator of your fraction, and .  
the fignificant figures of the di- (36)
vifor the denominator. The
reafon is afligned in the doftrine of fraiftions.
In like manner, if there be cut off from the dividend
any number of fignificant figures, with a cipher or ci¬
phers on their right hand; in this cafe the laft remainder,
with the fignificant figures cut off, make the numerator
of your fra&ion; and the fignificant figures of the di¬
vifor, with as many ciphers as the number of fignificant
figures cut off from the dividend, make the denomi¬
nator. Thus, if, in the above example, the figures cut
off from the dividend had been 50, the numerator of your
fraction would have, been 365, and the denominator 480.
Contractions in 'working Divijion of Integers.
1. To divide any number by 10, too, 1000, fee. you
have only to point off for a remainder as many figtirep
on the right hand of the dividend as the divifor has ci¬
phers, and the other figures on the left of the point or
feparatrix are the quotient. Thus, 7489634 divided
by 10, 100, 1000, fee. ftands as follows.
Quot. rem.
10)748963.4
100)74896.34
1000)7489.634
10000)748.9634
2. If the figures of the divifor are all 9’s, or all except
the units figure, as 9, 99, 999, 98, 997> 9996, fee. work
as follows:
Find a new divifor, by annexing to unity as many ci¬
phers as there are figures in the given divifor, fubtraft
the given from the new divifor, and the remainder or
difference is the complement. Divide the given dividend
by the new divifor, viz. point off fo many figures on
the
A R I T H M E T I C K. 379
the right hand as there are ciphers in the faid divifor; the
figures thus pointed off are to be efleemed a remainder,
and the other figures on the left hand are to be accounted
a quotient; then multiply this quotient by the comple¬
ment, placing the units of the produdt under the units of
the former remainder; again, divide this pi*odu<5t by the
new divifor, by pointing off from the right hand the fame
number of figures as in the former remainder, and the fi¬
gures to the left are to be efteemed another quotient;
which quotient you are again to multiply by the comple¬
ment, and divide as before. And in this manner proceed
till the laft quotient is nothing ;. then add as in addition
of integers, obferving the carriage from the left hand co¬
lumn of the remainders ; to the remainders add the pro-
duft of the faid carriage and complement, and the fum
is the total remainder; and the fum of the feveral quo¬
tients is the total quotient required.
Example.
Divide 74678 by 98.
New divifor 100 100)746.98
Given divifor 98 14.92=746X2
— .28=14X2
Complement ?  
Tot. quot. 762.18+4=22 total rem.
Carriage 2X2 complement = 4
Explication.
Firft, to unity annex two ciphers, becaufe the given di¬
vifor confifts of two figures, and fo the oew divifor is
100; from which fubtraft the given divifor 98, and there
remains 2 for the complement.
Next divide the given dividend by the new divifor,
viz. point off 98, the two figures next the right hand,
for the firfi: remainder; and the figures on the left, name¬
ly, 746, is the quotient.
Then multiply the faid firff quotient 746 by the com¬
plement 2 ; and by the new divifor divide the product
1492, viz. point off 92 for the fecond remainder, and
14 is the fecond quotient.
Again, multiply the fecond quotient 14 by the com¬
plement 2, and the produdt 28, divided by 100, gives
28 for the third remainder, but nothing to the quotient.
Then add the feveral remainders and quotients, and
find the total quotient amounts to 762, and the remain¬
ders to 18.
Laftly, multiply 2, the carriage from the left-hand
column of the remainders, by the complement 2 ; and
the produdt 4 add to the remainders 18, and the fum 22.
is the total remainder.
II. Divifton of the parts of Integers.
Heue there are three cafes.
1. If the divifor be a digit, by it divide the integers
of the dividend, reduce the remainder to the parts of
the next inferior denomination, and add it, when thus
reduced, to the faid parts ; then divide the fum, redu¬
cing and adding the remainder to the parts of the follow¬
ing denomination, fee.
Note, If the integral part of the dividend be lefs than
the divifor,: you mult, in the firff place, reduce it to the
parts of the next denomination.
Examp. I. If L. 274 : 13 : 8 •' 3 be equally divided
among 8 men, what will each man’s (hare be ?
Here firff divide the in¬
tegers L. 274 by 8, and the L. s. d. f.
quotient is L. 34, and L. 2 8)274 I3 8 3 dividend,
remains; which reduced to 34 6 8 2| quotient,
the next denomination makes
40 fhillings; and thefe added to 13 fhillings make 53
Ihillings ; which divided by 8 gives 6 fhillings to the quo¬
tient, and 5 fhillings remains; which 5 fhillings reduced
make 6od and 6od. added to 8d. make 68 d.; which divi¬
ded by 8 gives 8d. to the quotient, and 4d. remains, fee.
The operation may, if you pleafe, be drawn out at
large ; as in the following
Examp. II. If C. 42 : 2 : 8 of tobacco be made up
into 5 equal hhds, what will be the neat weight of each,
hhd?
Here divide the C.43 by C. Q. lb. C. Q lb.
5, and the quotient is C. 8, 5)43 2 8(8 2 244
and C. 3 remains ; which 40
reduced, and added to the —
2 makes 14 which 3 rem.
divide by 5, fee. 4
10
4 rem.
28
120
10
20
20
2, If the divifor confiffs of two or more figures,, and'
be a compofite number, refolve it into its component
parts, and divide the given dividend by one of thefe
parts, the quotient by another, fee. and the laft quo¬
tient is the anfwer,
3. If the divifor confifts of integers and parts, reduce
both divifor and dividend to the fame denomination, and
then proceed as in divifion of integers.
HI. The Proof of Divifton.
Division may be proved feveral ways, viz. by mul¬
tiplication, by divifion, and by cafting_out the 9’s.
1. By multiplication: Multiply the quotient by the
divifor, or the divifor by the quotient; and the produift
with the remainder added to it, will be equal to the di¬
vidend : Or, take the produ&s of the quotient-figures into
the divifor, add them in the order they ftand under the
dividuals; and their fum, with the remainder,. will be
equal to the dividend.
2. By divifion : Divide the difference of the dividend
and remainder by the quotient, and your next quotient'
will be equal to your firff divifor, without any remainder.
But this method is tedious.
3. By calling cut the 9’s: Caff the 9's out of the di-
vifoEE'
^86 A R I T II
vifor and quotient, place the excefies on the right and
lek fides of a crofs; then multiply thefe two figures ini
to one another, apd call the. 9’s out of their produft;
add-theexcefs to the remainder; and, cafting out the
9’s if need be, place the turn or excefs at the top of the
crofs ; then call the 9*3 out of the dividend, and fet the
exc^fs at the bottom. .If the work be right, the figures
at the top and bottom of the crofs will agree, or be the
fame.
Thefe methods of proof are a proper exercife to the
learner in fchools ; but, in bufinefs, the only proof ufed
is a careful revifal of the operation.
Chap. VI. Reduction.
Reduction teacheth how to bring a number of one
name or denomination to another of the fame value; and
is either defcending, afcending, or mixt.
I. Redudtion defcending brings a number of a higher
denomination to a lower, when the lower is fome aliquot
part of the higher; as pounds to {hillings, pence, or far¬
things; and is performed by multiplication.
II. Reduftion afcending brings a number of a lower
denomination to a higher, when the lower is fome aliquot
part of the higher ; as Ihillrngs, pence, or farthings, to
pounds ; and is performed by divifion.
III. Mixt reduction-brings a number of one denomi¬
nation to another, when the one is no aliquot part of the
other; as pounds to guineas, and requires the ufe of
both multiplication and divifion.
In treating of reduction we {hall conjoin the defcend¬
ing and afcending, the one ferving as a proof of the
other ; and {hall afterwards treat of mixt redu&ion by
itfelf. . .
In working redudtion, of whatever kind, the following
■rule is to be obferved, viz. '
Multiply or divide as the tables of money and weights
diredt. - .•
Reduttion defcending and afcending.
1. MONEY.
Quest, i
and farthings
This redudtion is defcending,
riierefore multiply the pounds by
20, becaufe 20 {hillings make 1
pound, and the produdt is {hillings;
then multiply the {hillings by 12,
tecaufe 12 pence make 1 {hilling,
and the produdt is pence: laftly,
multiply the pence by 4, becaufe
4 farthings make x penny, and the
produdt is farthings.
In L. 472 how many {hillings, pence,
472 pounds.
2°
9440 {hillings.
113280 pence.
4
453120 farthings.
M E T I C K.
Proof, by Reduction afcending.
In 453120 farthings how many pence, {hillings, and
pounds ?
Here divide the farthings by. 4)453120 farthings.
4, becaufe 4 farthings make 1  
penny, and the quotient is 12)1(3280 pence.
pence : then divide the pence  
by 12, becaufe 12 pence make 2|o)944|o .{hillings.
1 {hilling, and the quotient is  
{hillings : laltly, divide the (hil- 472 pounds..
lings by 20, becaufe 20 {hillings
make 1 pound, and the quotient is pounds.
Note 1. To reduce pounds to pence at one operation,
multiply by 240, the number of pence in 1 pound.
Note 2. To reduce pounds to farthings at one-opera¬
tion, multiply by 960, the number of farthings in 1
pound.
Note 3. To reduce {hillings to farthings at one ope¬
ration, multiply by 48, the number of fkrthings in t
{hilling.
Note 4. To reduce pence to pounds at one operation,
divide by 240, the pence in 1 pound.
Note 5. To reduce farthings to pounds at one ope¬
ration, divide by. 960, the farthings in 1 pound.
. Note 6. To reduce farthings to {hillings at one ope¬
ration, divide by 48, the farthings in 1 {billing. ,
. Here follows the farthings of Quell. 1. reduced back
to pounds by thefe notes.
By note 4.
. 4)453120. farthings.
24|o)xT32&]o d. (472 L.
96
172 - ,
168
48
48
(°)
By n<
48)453120(94 Jo {hillings.
432 472 pounds.
2ii
192
192
192
(o)
By note 5.
96|°)453i2|o(472 L.
384”
691
672
192 .
192 .
~sr
6.
20).
2. AVOIR-
A R I T H
2. AVOIRDUPOIS WEIGHT.
'uejl, 1. In C. 47 : I : 20 how many ounces?
C. Q lb.
47 x 20
4
189
28
1512
380
53X2 lb.
16
31872
$312
84992 oz.
PROOF.
In 84992 ounces how many lb. Q, and C,
28) 4) C. lb.
16(84992 (5312 (189 (47 1 20
8<v 28 * 16
49
48
19
16
251 29
224 28
272 (o) Q^
2J2
(20) lb.
32
32
i>)
Mixt Reduftian.
In working mixt redudtion obferre the following
Rule. By reduction defcending bring the given
name to fome fuch third name as is an aliquot part both
of the name given and of the name fought, and then by
reduftion afcending bring the third name to the name
fought.
Mixt redudtion, as well as reduction defcending and
afcending, extends to money, as follows.
''uefi. In 7641. how many guineas ?
• Here the given name is
pounds, the name fought is
guineas, and the third name,
to whi^h the pounds are re¬
duced, is fhillings ; for a
fhilling is an aliquot part
both of a pound and of a
guinea.
Vol. I. No. 16.
764 pounds.
21)15280(727 guineas.
X47--
58
. 42
160
•147 .
(13) fhillings.
3
M E T I C K. 381
PROOF.
In 727 guineas 13 {hillings, how many pounds ?
Guineas. Jhill.
727 13
730
1455
2|o)i528|o
764 pounds.
Chap. VII. The Rule of Three.
The Rule of Three, called alfo, on account of its
excellence, the Golden Rule, from certain numbers gi¬
ven finds another ; and is divided into fimple and com¬
pound, or into fingle and double.
Sect. I. The Simple or Single Rule of Three.
The fimple rule of three, from three numbers given,
finds a fourth, to which the third bears the fame propor¬
tion as the firft does to the fecond.
The nature and properties of proportional numbers
may be underftood fufficiently for our purpofe from the
following obfervations.
In comparing any two numbers, with refpedt to the
proportion which the one bears to the other, the firlf
number, or that which bears proportion, is called the
antecedent; and the other, to which it bears proportion,
is called th.z confequent; and the quantity of the proper-*
tion or, ratio is eftimated from the quot arifing from divi¬
ding the antecedent by the confequent. Thus the ratio
or proportion betwixt 6 and 3 is the quot arifing front
dividing the antecedent 6 by the confequent 3 ; namely;
2 ; and the ratio or proportion betwixt 1 and 2 is the
quot arifing from the divifion of the antecedent 1 by the
confequent 2 ; namely or one half.
Four numbers are faid to be proportional when the
ratio of the firft to the fecond is the fame as that of the
third to the fourth j and the proportional numbers are
ufually diftinguifhed from one another as in the following
examples.
4 : 2 :: 16 : 8 . 6 : 9 :: 12 : 18.
Proportional numbers, or numbers in proportion, are
ufually denominated terms; of which the firft and lalt
are called i-x/Tme/, and the intermediate ones get the
name of means, or middle terms.
If four numbers are proportional, they will a-lfo be'
rnverfely proportional; that is, the firft confequent will
be to its own antecedent as the fecond confequent is
to its antecedent; or the fourth term will be to the
third as the fecond is to the firft. Thus, if 6 : 3 :: 10 : 5,.
then by inverfion, 3 : 6 :: 5 : 10, or 5 : 10 :: 3 : 6.
Euclid v. 4. cor. By either of thefe kinds of inverfioa
may any queftion in the rule of three be proved. •
If four numbers are proportional, they will alfo be al¬
ternately proportional; that is, the firft antecedent will
f 5 D be
3S2 A R I T H M
be to the fecond antecedent as the firft confequent is
to the fecond confequent; or the firft term will be to
the third term as the fecond term is to the fourth. Thus,
if 8 : 4 :: 24 : 12, then, by alternation, 8 : 24 :: 4 : 12.
Euclid v. 16.
But the celebrated property of four proportional num¬
bers is, that the product of the extremes is equal to the
produtt of the meaps. Thus, if 2 : 3 :: 6 : 9, then
2X9 = 3X6=18. Euclid vi. 16.
Hence we have an eafy method of finding a fourth pro¬
portional to three numbers given, viz.
Multiply the middle number by the lafi:, and divide the
product by the firft, the quot' gives the fourth propor¬
tional.
Examp. Given 6, 5, and 36, to find a fourth pro¬
portional ; put x equal to the fourth proportional, then
6 : 5 :: 36 : and 5 X 36 = 180 = 6 X x ; where¬
fore, dividing the product 180 by the factor 6, the quot
gives the other factor x, namely 30, the fourth propor¬
tional fought.
Every queftion in the rule of three may he divided
into two parts, viz. a fuppofition and a demand ; and of
the three given numbers, two are always found in the fup¬
pofition, and only one in the demand.
Examp. If 4 yards coft 12 {hillings, what will 6
yards dofi at that rate t
In this -queftion foe fuppofition is, If 4 yards coft 12
{hillings; and the two terms contained in it are 4 yards
and 12 millings': The demand lies in thefe words, What
v/ill 6 yards coft .3 and the only term found in it is 6
yards.
The fuppofition and demand being thus diftinguifhed,
proceed to flate the queftion, or to put the terms in due
order for operation, as the following rules diredt.
Rule I. Place that term of foe fuppofition, which
is. of the fame kind with the number fought, in the mid¬
dle. The two remaining terms are extremes, and always
of the fame kind.
II. Confider, from foe nature of the queftion, whether
the anfwer muft be greater or lefs than the middle term;
and if the anfwer muft be greater, the leaft extreme is
the divifor; but if the, anfwer muft be lefs than the mid¬
dle term, the greateft extreme is the divifor.
HI. Place foe divifor on foe left hand, and the other
extreme on the right; then multiply the fecond and third
terms, and divide their product by the firft; and the quot
gives the anfvver; which is always of the fame name with
the middle term.
When the divifor happens to be foe extreme found in
foe fuppofition, the proportion is called direll; but when
foe divifor happens to be the extreme in the demand, the.
proportion is inverfe.
The three rules delivered above are indeed fo framed,
as to preclude the diftinttion of direft and inverfe, or
lender it needlefs, foe left-hand term being always the
divifor; but yet foe direft queftions being plainer in their
ewn nature, and more eafily comprehended by a learn¬
er, wt {hall, in the firft place, exemplify the rules by a
let of qutftions of the diredl kind, and fhall afterwards
adduce an example or two of fuch as are inverfe.
E T I C K.
I. The Simple Rule of Three Dirett.
Quest, r. If 4 yards coft 12 (hillings, what will 6
yards coft at that rate ?
The fuppofition and demand of this queftion have al¬
ready been diftinguifhed, and foe two terms in the former
are 4 yards 12 {hillings, and foe only term in the latter
is 6 yards.
The number fought is the price of fix yards, and
the term in foe fuppofition of the fame kind is the
price of 4 yards, viz. 12 {hillings, which place in the
middle, as directed in Rule I. and the two remaining
terms are extremes, and of the fame kind, viz. botp
lengths.
It is eafy to perceive
that the anfwer muft be
greater than the middle
term; for 6 yards will coft
more than 4 yards ; there¬
fore the leaft extreme,
viz. 4 yards, is the divi¬
for, according ta Rule II.
Yds.
If 4 :
yds.
:: 6
4)72(18 {hillings Jnf
3*
32
(7)
Wherefore place the divifor 4 yards on the left hand,
and the other extreme 6 yards on the right ; and multi¬
plying the fecond and third terms, divide their produdt
by the firft term, and the quot 18-is the anfwer, and of
the fame name with the middle term, viz. {hillings, ac¬
cording to Rule III.
And becaufe the divifor is the extreme found in the
fuppofition, the proportion is direft.
Quest. 2. If 7C. of pepper coft 21J. how much
will 5 C. coft at that rate ?
The fuppofition in this queftion is, that 7 C. of pep¬
per cofts 2 r 1. and the two terms in it are 7 C. and 21 1.;
the demand is, How much will 5 C. coft ? and the term
in it is 5.C.
The number fought is the price of 5 C. and the term
in the fuppofition of the fame kind is the price of 7 C.
viz. 211. which place in the middle. The two remain¬
ing terms are extremes, and of the fame kind, viz. quan¬
tities of pepper.
It is obvious, that the anfwer
muft be lefs than the middle
term; for 5 C. will coft lefs than
7 C.; and therefore the greateft
extreme, vid. 7 C. is the divifor.
C. L. C.
If 7 : 21 :: 5
5
7)105(15/. zfsf.
7
35
35
(7)
Accordingly place the divifor 7C. on the left hand,
and the other extreme 5C. on foe right; and having mul¬
tiplied foe fecond and third terms, divide their produft
by
AR ITHMETICK. 383
by the firfl term, and the quot 15 is the anfwer, of the
fame name with the middle term, viz. L. Sterling.
And becaufe the divifor happens to be the extreme in
the fuppofition, the proportion is direct.
Quest. 3. If 13 yards of velvet coft L.21, what
will 2 7 yards coft at that rate ?
r. l. r.
If 13 : 2i :: 27 * Rem. 4 s.
27 12
‘47
42
»3)567(43L.
52
47
39
Rem. 8 L.
20
i3)j6o(x2 s.
13)48(3 d.
39
Rem. 9d.
4
i3)36(2f.
26
Rem. 10 f.
When there hap¬
pens to be a remain¬
der, it may be redu¬
ced to the next in¬
ferior denomination,
and the operation
continued, as in the
margin ; and in this
cafe the quot will
confift of two or
more parts.
<3
30
26
l. s, d. r.
Anf 43 )2 3 2^
# Rem. 4 s.
Such remainders are always of the fame name with
the preceding part of the quot. Thus, the firft remain¬
der 8, and the firft part of the quot 43, are both pounds
and the fecond remainder 4, and the fecond part of the
quot i2, are both fhillings; and the third remainder 9,
and the third part of the quot 3, are both pence; and
the fourth remainder 10, and the fourth part of the quot
2, are both farthings.
As we have no money under farthings, the laft re¬
mainder cannot be reduced arty lower; fo there remains
j6 farthings to be divided by 13 ; that is, there is want¬
ing to complete the quot, the thirteenth part of 10 far¬
things, or the thirteenth part of every reitxiining farthing;
that is,, ten thirteenth parts of one farthing; fo you fer
the remainder xo above, and the divifor 13 below a line
drawn between them, in the form of afra&ion, of which
the remainder is the numerator, and the divifor the de¬
nominator.
II. The Simple Rule of Three Invtrfe,
Quest, i. If 8 men can do a piece of work in 12
days, in how many days will 16 men do the fame ?
In tills queftion the fuppofition is, If 8 men do a piece
of work in 12 days,, and the two terms contained in it
are 8 men and 12 days: The demand lies in thefe words.
In how many days will 16 men do- the fame ? and the
only term' contained in it is 16 men.
The number fought here is the days in which 16 men
vVill do the work, and the term in the fuppofition of the
fame kind is 12 days;' wherefore I place 12 days as the
middle term, according to Rule I. the two remaining
Men. days.
16 : 12 :
16)96(6 days. Anf.
96
(O)
terms are extremes, and of the fame kind, viz. both of
them men.
It is obvious that the an¬
fwer muft be lefs than the mid¬
dle term ; for 16 men will do
the work in fewer days than 8
men ; and therefore, by Rule
II. the greateft extreme, viz.
16, is the divifor ; which
place on the left hand, and the
other extreme on the right, as
d;re<51ed in Rule III. Then multiplying the fecond and
third, and dividing their product by the fiift, the quot
comes out in days; that is, of the fame name with the
middle term.
And becaufe the extreme found in the demand hap¬
pens to be the divifor, the proportion is invcrle.
Qiiefl. 2. How much plulh of 3 quarters wide will
line a cloak that hath in it 4 yards of 7 quarters wide ?
4L yds.
Here the anfwer muft be 3 : 4 : : 7
greater than the middle term ; 7
for the plufh being narrower —
than the doth of which the 3) 28 (9-j-yards. Anf.
cloak is made, will require 27
inore length. —
.%/?/?. 3. If 36 yards be a rood of mafon-work, at
3 feet fogh, how many yards will make a rood at 9 feet
high ?
Feet. yds. feet.
9 : 36 : : 3.
3
9) 108
Anf. 12 yards.-
Sect. II, The Compound Rule of Three.
The Compound Rule of Three, from five given num¬
bers finds a fixth, or'from feven given numbers finds an
eighth, or fronveleven finds a twelfth, <bc.
This rule eaiily and naturally admits of fubdlvifions,
which, from the number of die terms given, may be de¬
nominated the rule of Five, the rule of Seven, the rule
of Nine, the rule of Eleven,,, iyc.
Queftions in the Compound rule of three are alfo re-
folved into two parts, viz. a fuppofitron and a demand.
If five terms be given, three of thefe are always found
in the fuppofition, and two in the demand; if feven
terms be given, four of thefe are in the fuppofition, and
three in the demand; if nine terms are given, five of
thefe are in the fuppofition, and four in the demand; if
eleven terms be given, fix of thefe are in the fuppofition,.
and five in the demand, he.
The fuppofition and demand being diftinguiftied, pro¬
ceed to ftate the queftion ; that is, to put the terms in
due order for operation, as the following rules direft.
Ruee I. Place that term of the fuppofition which is
of the fame kind with the number fought, in the middle.
The:
A R I T H
The remaining' terms are extremes, which muft be clailed
into fun liar pairs, by making each pair confift of one term
taken from the fuppofttion, and another of the fame kind
taken from the demand.
II. Out of each fimilar pair, joined with the middle
MET I C K.
16 days, how many bufhels will 20 horfes eat in 24
days ?
The fuppofition in this queftion is. If 14 horfes eat
56 bulhels in 16 days; and the three terms contained in
4 horfes, 56 bufhels, and 16 days: The de-
■rm, form a fimple queflion; and in each fimple que- mand is. How many bufhels will 20 horfes eat in 24
(fion, fo formed, find the diyifor; viz. confider from days? and the two terms contained in it are 20 horfes.
e nature of the queftion, whether the anfwer be
greater or lefs than the middle term; and if the anfwer
mull be greater, the leaft extreme is the divifor; but if
the anfwer muft be lefs than the middle term, the greatr
eft extreme is the divifor.
III. Place all the divifors on the left hand, and the
other extremes on the right; then multiply the divifors,
r extremes on the left, continually, for a divifor, and
and 24 days.
The number fought is bufhels, and the term in the
fuppofition of the fame kind is 56 bufhels; wherefore,
according to Rule I.; place 56 bufhels in the middle.
The remaining four terms are extremes, which you clafs
into fimilar pairs, by making each pair confifi of one
term taken from the fuppofition, and another of the fame
kind taken from the demand. Thus, 14 horfes, and
multiply the extremes on the right hand and the middle 20 horfes make one pair; again, 16 days, and 24 days
rm, continually, for a dividend; and, laftly, divide make another pair.
the dividend by the divifor; and the quot is the anfwer,
of the fame name with the middle term.
The anfwer to queftions in the compound rule of
three may alfo be had by working the fimple queftions
feparately, or by themfelves, in the following manner.
The middle term, with any one pair of fimilar ex¬
tremes, make the firfl fimple queftion, and the anfwer
to this queftion muft be made the middle term to the
next fimilar pair of extremes; and the anfwer to this
Out of the feveral fimilar pairs, joined with the mid¬
dle term, you form fo many fimple queflions, according
to Rule II. viz. by faying,
1. If X4 horfes eat 56 bufhels in a certain number of
days, how many bufhels will 20 horfes eat in the fame
time ?
2. If 16 days eat up, or confume, 56, or any other
number of bufhels, how many bufhels will 24 days coa-
fume ?
In the firfl: fimple queftion it is obvious, that the an-
fecond queftion, muft in like manner be made the middle fwer will be greater than the middle term; for 20 horfes
to the following fimilar pair of extremes,
and the anfwer to the laft fimple queftion is the number
fought.
But the joint operation prefcribed in Rule III. is the
fhorter as well as the eafier method; for in workingfome
of* the fimple queftions, there may happen to be a re¬
mainder, and confequently the middle term of the next
fimple queflion will have fome fra&ional part; which in-
conveniency is avoided by working jointly.
In every fimple queftion, when the divifor is an ex¬
treme found in the fuppofition, the proportion is direft ;
but when the divifor is an extreme found in the demand,
the proportion is inverfe.
The three rules delivered above are indeed fo calcula¬
ted, as to make no difference between direft and inverfe,
or fo as to render that diftindlion needlefs, the left-hand
extremes being all divifors ; but yet, as queftions confift- ^ % .
ing entirely of diredt proportions are the plaineft and ea- of one kind, and the two
ficft^ it will be proper, in the firft place, to exemplify lower ones make another
the rules by queftions of the diredt kind, and afterwards
introduce fuch as are inverfe.
And as queftions in the rule of five are by far more
numerous, and occur much oftener, than queftions in the
rule of feven, nine, or eleven ; we fhall, firft of all, give
queftions in the rule of five, wherein both proportions
are diredt; then thofe wherein one or both proportions
are inverfe ; and, laftly, give a few examples of the rules
of feven, nine, and eleven.
will eat more bufhels than 14 horfes will do in the fame
time ; and fo the leaft extreme, viz. 14, is the divifoc,;
and becaufe 14 is an extreme found in the fuppofition,
the proportion is diredt.
In the fecond fimple queftion it is alfo plain, that the
anfwer will be greater than the middle term ; for 24 days
will confume more bufhels than 16 days; and confe¬
quently the leaft extreme, viz. 16, is the divifor; and
becaufe 16 is an extreme found in the fuppofition, the
proportion is diredh
According to Rule III.
place the divifors on the left
hand, and the other ex¬
tremes on the right, and
both of them under one an¬
other, fo that the two up¬
per ones make a pair, or be
pair, or be of one kind ;
and no matter which of the
Joint operation.
Horfes. bujhels. horfet.
If 14
da. 16
84
*4
56 : : 20
24 da,
480
56
288
240
I. The Rule of Five Direft.
Quest. 1. If 14 horfes eat $6 bufhels of corn in
pairs be uppermoft: then 224)26880(120
multiply the divifbrs, or 224
the extremes on the left ———
hand, for a divifor; and a- 448
gain multiply the extremes 448
on the right, and the mid-    
die term, continually, for (o)
a dividend ; and dividing Jltif 120 bufhels.
the dividend by the divifor,
the quot or anfwer comes out of the fame name with
the middle term, viz. 120 bufhels.
The'
ARITHMETIC K. 585
The two fimple tjneftions into which the compound
cjueftion is refolved, are ftated, and wrought feparately,
as follows.
H. B. H. Days. B. Days.
If 14 : $6 : : 20 If 16 '• 80 : : 24
20 80
14)1120(806.
112
16)1920(120B.
16 •
120 bufhels, as before. (o)
II. The Ruls of Five Inverfe.
The queftions that fall under this rule have commonly
one of the proportions inverie, and the other dire<ft, and
fometimcs the upper, and fometimes the lower, is the
inverfe proportion; and in fome few qucftions both pro¬
portions are inverfe. Now, though the three rules de¬
livered above make no difference betwixt direct and in¬
verfe ; yet, to bring the learner to fome meafure of ac¬
quaintance with this ufeful dilliniflion, we'fhall, in Hating
the following quefticns, expofe the fame to view, by af¬
fixing an afferifk to the extremes of every inverfe pro¬
portion.
Queft. If 14 horfes eat 56 bufhels of corn in 16
days, in how many days will 20 horfes eat 120 bufhels
at that rate ?
In this queftion the fuppofition is, that 14 horfes eat
56 bufhels in 16 days; and the demand is, In how many
days 20 horfes will eat 120 bufhels.
The number fought is days, and the term in the fup¬
pofition of the fame kind is 16 days and accordingly
place 16 days in the middle. The remaining four terms
are extremes; which clafs into finvlar pairs, by ma¬
king each pair confifl,of one term taken from the fuppo¬
fition, and another of the fame kind taken from the de¬
mand. Thus, 14 horfes and 20 horfes make one pair;
again, 56 bufhels and 120 bufhels make another pair.
Out of the fimilar pairs, joined with the middle term,
form fo many fmiple queftions; namely,
1. If 14 horfes eat a certain number of bufhels in 16
days, in how many days will 20 horfts eat the famer
quantity \
2. If 56 bufhels are catsup in 16 days, in how many
days will 120 bufhels be eat up by the fame eaters ?
In the firft fimple quefiion it is plain, that the anfwer
mull be lefs than the middle term; for 20 horfes will
eat the feme number of bufhds in fewer days than 14
horfes; and fo the greatefl extreme, viz. 20, is the di-
vifor; and becaufe 20 is an extreme found in the de¬
mand, the proportion is inverfe.
In the fecond fimple queftion it is alfo obvious, that
the anfwer muff be greater than the middle term ; for 120
bufhels will require more days to be eat up in than ^6
bufhels; and therefore the leafl extreme, viz, $6, is the
divifor; and becaufe 56 is an extreme found in the fup¬
pofition, the proportion is direft.
Vol, I. No. 17. 3
. We now proceed
to Hate the queftion,
by placing the divi-
fors on the left hand, bufti.
and the other ex¬
tremes on the right;
then multiply and di¬
vide, as diredted in
Rule III. .and the
anfwer comes out of
the feme name with
the middle term,
viz. 24 days.
Joint operation.
Horf. days. borf.
*20 : 16 : : 14*
56 120 bufh.
1X20 1680
16
1008
168
— days.
112 |o)2688|o(24 yin.
224
448
448
(°)
The two fimple queftions into which the compound
queftion is refolved, are ftated and wrought feparately,
as follows.
Horf. day. horf.
#2Q : 16 : : 14*
64
16
2|o)22|4 (n days.
24
9|6(4 hours,
16
60
96)0(48 min.
Bufh. d. h. m. hufs.
56 : 11—4—48 : . X20
24
268
60
16128
120
  6|o)
56(1935360(3456)0
168.... 
  24)576(24 days.
255 48
224 —
313
280
336
.336
96
96
(o)
(°)
III. The Rule of Seven, Nine, fee.
Quest. If.15 men eat t56d. worth of bread in 6
days, when wheat is fold at 12 s. pey bufhel, in how
many days will 30 men eat 520 d. worth of bread when
wheat is at 10 s. per bufhel ?
This queftion belongs to the rule erf feven, the num¬
ber fought is days, and the term of the feme kind in
the fuppofition is 6 days, v/hich place in the middle.
The remaining fix terms are extremes, which clafs into
fimilar pairs, by taking ofie term of each pair out of
the fuppofition, and another of the fame kind out of the
demand.
f 5 E Out
38<5
A R I T H M
Out of the fimilar pairs, joined with the middle term,
form fo many Ample queftions, in each of which you find
the divifor by Rule II. *, then place the divifors on the
left hand, and the other extremes on the right, as di¬
rected in Rule III. and multiply and divide, as follows.
Joint operation.
Men. day*, men.
*30 : 6 : : 15 ^
k 10 : d. 156
yaod.
30
75
7800
468|oo)56i6|oo(i2 days. Anf.
468 •
936
936
.
This compound queffion is refolved into three Ample
ones, as fellows.
30 : 6 :: 15 : 3
iy6 : 3 : : 520 : 10
xo : 10 : : 12 : 12 days. Anf.
ExAtflP. If 100 lb-, of Venice weigh 70 lb. of Ly¬
ons, and 120 lb. of Lyons weigh 100 lb. of Roan, and
80 lb. of Roan weigh 100 lb. of Toloufe, and 100 lb.
of Toloufe weigh 74 lb. of Geneva, how many pounds
of Geneva will 100 lb. of Venice weigh?
This queftion belongs to the rule of nine; and becaufe
pounds of Geneva is the number fought, the given pounds
of Geneva, viz. 74, mu ft be the middle term : the re¬
maining terms are extremes; which may be clalfed into
fimilar pairs, and Hated as follows.
7V. Gen. Tol.
Ven. Ly.. 100: 74^: 100 Ly. Ven.
ioo.: 120 : Roan 80
8000
r20
100 Roan : 70 : xoo
960000
100
10000
70
700000
100
E T I C K.
But the queftion becomes more fimple, and is wrought
with greater eafe and advantage, by being ftated in the
fractional form, as follows.
100 X 70 X 100 X iooX 74 70 X 100 X 74
100 X 120 X 86X100 120X80
7X10X74 5180
 = Xy3f£ lb. of Geneva. Anf.
12X8 96
We (hall conclude by obferving, that every compound
queftion, whether in the rule of five, feven, nine, or
eleven, fac. properly fpeaking, confifts but of three gi¬
ven terms. For the firit term, or divifor, is to be con-
fidered as one compound term made up, or produced,
by the continual multiplication of the extremes on the
left hand, as fo many component parts. In like manner,
the third term is to be confidered as one compound term,
made up by the continual multiplication of the extremes
on the right, as component parts. Suppofe the qusftion
to be,
If L. xoo in 12 months gain L. 5 intereft, what will
L. 75 gain in 19 months ?
Here it is obvious, that it is neither the L. 100 prin¬
cipal, nor the 12 months of time, taken feparately, that
gains the L. 5 intereft, but both contribute their (hare ;
that is, they confpire, as joint caufes, to produce one
effed; and therefore their product, viz. the firft term,
is to be confidered as the caufe producing the effeCl j
that is, the firft term, viz. 100 X 12, caufeth, produ-
ceth, or gains L. 5 of intereft. And in like manner,
the product of the extremes on the right hand, or the
third term, viz. 75 X 9, is to be efteemed the caufe that
produceth a fimilar effect; that is, gains a like fum of
intereft, namely, the fourth term, or anfwer. In refe¬
rence to this way of confidering the firft and third terms*
the queftion might be ftated as under.
If 100 X 12 : 5 : : 75 X 9
Chap. VIII. Fellowship.
Fellowship, called alfo Company, ox PartnerJhip*
is when two or more perfons join their flocks, and trade
together, dividing the gain or lofs proportionally among
the partners.
Fellowfhip is either without or with time, called alfo
Single or Double.
96000000 70000000
74
9.6]pooooo)'518 0(000000(5 3I4 ^ °f Ge-
480 * neva. Anf.
380
288
I. Fetlo’wfhip •without time.
Queftions in felfowfhip without time are wrought by
the following proportion.
As the total flock
To the total gain or lofs,
So each man’s particular flock
To his (hare of the gain or lofs.
AR ITHM ETI CK.
B8‘7
A’s ftock
B’s ftock
L.
12
8
Stack, gain. Stock.
A. If 20 : s :: 12
5
Total ftock 20
2jo)6|o
Stock, gain. Stock.
B. If 20 : 5 :: 8
8
2]o)4|a
A’s gain 31.
L.
A’s gain 3
B’s gain 3
B’s gain 2 1. Total gain 5 proof.
Note 1. When in any queftion there happen to be
remainders, they muft be reduced equally low, fo as to
be all of one name ; and then their fum will be either
equal to the divifor, or exactly double, triple, &c. of
it: and accordingly 1, 2, 3, carried from the fum
of the remainders, and added to the particular gains,
will make up the total gain ; or the divifor will always
divide the fum of the remainders exadly, and the quot
added to the particular gains will give the total gain.
Note 2. When the partners have equal fliares of ftock
or capital, their (hares of gain, lofs, or neat proceeds,
is found readily by dividing the total gain, lofs, &c. by
the number of partners.
II. Fellonvjhip ’with time.
In fellowfhip with time, the gain or lofs is divided a-
mong the partners, both in proportion to the ftocks
themfelves, and alfo in proportion to the times of their
continuance in company : For the fime ftock continued
a double time, procures a double (hare of gain ; and
continued a triple time, procures a triple fliare of gain ;
that is, the fhares of gain or lofs are as the produifts of
the feveral ftocks multiplied into their refpeftive times :
and accordingly queftions belonging to this rule are
wrought by the following propoition.
As the fum of the products of the feveral ftocks into
their refpedtive times
To the total gain or Ibfs,
So the produft of each man’s ftock into his time
To his (hare of the gain or lofs.
Queji. 1. A put into company 401 for 3 months,
B 75 1, for 4 months j they gain 701. : What fhare muft
each man have ?
A 40X3 = 120, third term for A’s (hare.
B 75 X 4 = 300, third term for B’s fhare.
420, firft term.
L. L.
A. If 420 : 70 120 B. If 420 : 70 :: 300
j 20 300
42|o)84ojo(2oL
84
42]6)2TOo]o(5oB
2 IP
(o) L. (o)
A’s gain 20
B’s gain 50
Total gain 70 proof.
Quejl. 2. A put into company 560]. for 8 months,
B 279 1. for 10 months, and C 735 1. for 6 months ;
they gained 10001.: What fhare of the gain muft each>
hare ?
A 560X 8=4480, third term for A’s fhare.
B 279X10=2790, third term for B’s fhare.
C 735X 6=4410, third term for C’s fhare.
11680, firft term.
L. L. s. d. f. Rent.
A If 11680 : 1000 :: 4480 : 383—11—2—3 208
B If 11680 : 1000 :: 2790 : 238—17—4—3— 80
C If 11680 : 1000 :: 4410 : 377—11—4—1— 880
Proof 1000—00—o—'O—-1168-
Chap. IX. Vulgar Fractions.
A Fraction is a part or parts of an unit, or of any
integer or whole; and is exprefTed by two numbers,
one above and the other below a line drawn between
them ; as, £.
The number under the line fhews into how many
parts the unit or integer is divided; and is called the
denominator, becaufe it gives name to the fraction : The
number above the line fhews or tells how many of thefe
parts the fraftion contains; and is therefore called the
numerator.
In the fraftion ^1. a pound Sterling is the unit, in¬
teger, or whole ; and the denominator 4 fhews that the
pound is broken or divided into four equal parts, viz.
4 crowns; and the numerator 3 (hews that the fradlion
contains three of thefe parts, that is, three crowns ; and
fo the value of this fraction is fifteen (hillings.
Cor. 1. Hence it follows, r. When the numera¬
tor of a. fra6Hon is lefs than the denominator, the va¬
lue of fuch. a fraftion is lefs than unity, or the integer.
2. When the numerator is equal to the denominator, the
value of the fraftion is exaftly an unit or integer. 3. When
the numerator is greater than the denominator, the value
of the fraftion is more than an unit; and fo often as the
denominator is contained in the numerator, .fo many units
or wholes are contained in the fraftion. If, therefore
the numerator of a fraftion be divided by the denomina¬
tor, the quot will be a number of units or; integers, and
the remainder fo many parts.
The numerator of a fraftion is to be confidered as a
dividend, and the denominator as a divifor; and the
fraftion itfelf may be taken to denote the.quotient.
Cor. 2. From this view of a fraftion, it is evident,'
that if the numerator and denominator of a fraftion be
either both multipled or both divided by the fame num¬
ber, the produfts or quotients will retain the fame pro-1
portion to one another; and confequently the new frac¬
tion thence arifing will be of the fame value with the
given one. Thus the numerator and denominator of the
fraflion ^ multiplied by 2 produces ■£> an<I divided by.
2 quots both which fraftions are of the fame value
with
Fraftions having 10, 100, 1000, or 1, with any num¬
ber.of ciphers annexed :© it, for a denominator, are call-
ecH
^83 A R I T H ft
ed decimal fra ft ions; and fraftions having any other de¬
nominator'are‘called vulgar frattions.
1. -A proper fradtion is that whofe numerator is left
than its denominator, and confequently is in value lefs
than unity; a5 •
2. ' An improper fradlion is that whofe numerator is e-
qual to or greater than its denominator; and CQnfequent-
iy is in value equal to or greater than an unit: as
3. A. fimple fradidn is that which has but one nume¬
rator, and one denominator; and may be either proper
or improper ; as ^ or 4*
4. "A compound fraction is made up of two or more
fimp’rfraftions, coupled together with the particle of,
and ir a fraction of a fraction; as y of -I, or ^ of -f 01
•5; A mixt number confifts of an integer, and a frac¬
tion joined with it ; as 7-^.
Becaufe in mod cafes fractions can neither be added
not fubVradted; till they be reduced, we begin with re-
dudljjon.
Rtduflion of Vulgar Frafticns.
Paont-EM I. To reduce an improper fra&ion to an
integer, op mixt number. .
Rule. Divide the numerator by the denominator,
the quot gives integers ; and the remainder, if there be
any, placed over the divifor or denominator, gives the
fiailion to be annexed.
Examples.
•1. KZfzxSy integers-, there being no remainder.
2. 54y,, the remainder being 5.
q. = 984|> the remainder b.ing 10.
4. t?3 tV» t^e temiinder being 48.
Pros. H. To reduce a mixt number to an improper
fra&ion.
Rule. Multiply the integer by the denominator; to
the produdl add the numerator: The fum is the nume¬
rator of the improper fra&ion; and the denominator is
the fame as' before.
Examples.
1. 547 = 4-ff7i for 54X8 = 432
+ 5
Numerator 437
2. 98-41= 'H-1 ; for 98 X 14 = 1372
+ 10
Numerator 1382
Pp.ob. III. To reduce a wholp number to a fradlion
of a given denominator.
Rule. Multiply the whole number by the given de¬
nominator; and place the produdl by way of numerator
over the given denominator..
E x a m p l e s. •
1. Reduce 9 to a fraction whofe denomination is y.
9X5 = 45* fo the fraction is V.
2. Reduce 36 to a fraCHon whofe denominator is 4.
• 36 X 4 = 144 ; fo the fraction is "f4,.
3. Reduce 8 to a fraftion whofe denominator is 1.
8X1 = 8; ib the fraction is
[ E T I C K.
The reafon of the rule appears by reverling the ope¬
ration ; for if the numerator be divided by the denomi¬
nator, it will quot the integer, or whole number.
Prob. IV. To reduce a compound fraction to a fim-
ple one.
Rule. Multiply the numerators continually for the
numerator of the timple fraction ; and multiply the deno¬
minators continually for its denominator.
Examples.
Ex. 1. *6f +=T*r. Ex. 2. 4of $of 4 = A*
CftRi From this problem may be deduced a method
of reducing a fraction of a lefler denomination to affac-
tion of a greater denomination ; namely,
Form a compound fraction, by comparing the given
fraction with the fuperior denominations; and then re¬
duce the compound fraction to a limpie one.
Examples.
1. What fraction of a pound Sterling is A 0f a penny ?
^d. is Of Ti- Ol -yg-L. =-5-^-5 L.
2. What fraction of a C. is of a pound ?
■g. lb. is of of -fC. — -p^-g-C.
Prob. V. To reduce a fraction of a greater denomi¬
nation to a fraction of a lefler denomination.
Rule. Multiply the numerator of the given fraction,
as in reduction of integers defeending ; and the product
is the numerator, to be placed over the denominator c£
the given fraction.
Example s.
j. What fraction of a {hilling is £ of a pound ?
Here, as in reduction .defeending, multiply the nu¬
merator 3 by 20, becaufe 20 ihiilings make a pound ; as
under.
L.
{hilling.
4
2. What fraction of a penny is £ L. ?
i-XlZXjlzzixrod
5 1 ‘
The reafon of this rule will appear by obferving, that
every fraction may be confidered in two views. Thus,
^ may either be confidered as expreffing three fourths of
one unit, or as denoting the fourth part of three units.
Now, if the unit be a pound Sterling, the fraction, in
the latter view, will denote the fourth part of three
pounds; and by reducing the numerator L. 3 to {hil¬
lings, we have ^ s ; and again reducing 60 {hillings t&
pence, we have 7^° d. equal to s. or to £L.
Prob. VI. To find the value of a fraction.
Rule. Reduce the numerator to the next inferior
denomination ; divide by the denominator; and the quot,
if nothing remain, is the value complete.
If there be any remainder, it is the numerator of a
fraction whofe denominator is the divifor. This frac¬
tion may either be annexed to the quotient, or reduced
to value, if there be any lower denomination.
Examp.
A R I T H M E T I C K. 389
Examp. What Is the value of |L. ?
Here confider {■ L. as exprefling the
fourth part of three pounds Sterling;
fo reduce L 3, the numerator, to flul-
lings, and divide by the denominator 4;
and as nothing remains, the quot, viz.
15 {hillings, is the value complete.
The reafon of this rule is the fame with that in the
preceediug problem. It is by the pradice of this pro¬
blem that remainders in the rule of three are reduced to
value.
Prob. VII. To reduce a fradion to its lowed terms.
Rule. Divide both numerator and denominator by
their greateft common divifor ; the two quots make the
new fradion.
The greateft common divifor of the numerator and
denominator of a fradion is found by the following
Rule. Divide the greater of thefe two numbers by
the Idler; and again divide the divifor by the remain¬
der; and fo on, continually, till o remains. The lad
divifor is their greated common divifor.
Examp. Reduce to its lowed terms.
Fird find the greated common divifor-of the numera¬
tor and denominator, as follows
784)952(1
784
168)784(4
672
112)168(1
112
Created common divifor 50)112(2
X12
3
20
4)60(153.
4
20
20
Then proceed to reduce the given fradion to its low¬
ed terms, by dividing both numerator and denominator
by 56, the gread common divifor.
56)784(14 new num. 56)952(17 new denom,
56 56
224
224
392
392
(o) (o)
So -ij-f-i- — 44-
Pros. VIII. To reduce fradions of different deno¬
minators to a common denominator.
Rule. Multiply the denominators continually for
the common denominator ; and multiply each numerator
into all the denominators, except its own, for the feve-
ral numerators,
Vol. 1. No. 17. 3
Examples.
Reduce 4 and 4 to a common denominator.
4X5=20, the common denominator.
3X5=15, the fird numerator.
4X4=16, the fecond numerator.
So the new fradions are and 44-
When the denominator of one fradion happens to be
an aliquot part of the denominator of another fradion,
the former may be reduced to the fame denominator
with the latter, by multiplying both its numerator and
denominator by the number which denotes how oft.en the
Idler denominator is contained in the greater.
Thus, y "h tv =: tv + -rv*
Here 3 is contained in 12 four times; fo multiply
both 2 and 3 by 4, and you have
Again, v +
Sometimes too, the fradion that has the greater de¬
nominator may, in like manner, be reduced to the fame
denominator with that which has the ieffer, by divifion.
Thus, j + t=T+J-
And 44 + tb- tt — tt d- tv -H tv-
The reafon of the above rule for reducing fradions
to a common denominator is evident from Corollary II.;
for both numerator and denominator of every fradion
are multiplied by the fame number, or by the fame num¬
bers.
After fradions are reduced to a common denominator,
they may frequently be reduced to lower terms, by di¬
viding all the numerators, and alfo the common denomi¬
nator, by any divifor that leaves no remainder, or by
cutting off an equal number of ciphers from both.
Addition of Vulgar Fraftiont.
Rule I. If the given fradions have all the fame
denominator, add the numerators, and place the fum o-
ver the denominator.
Ex. 1. What is the fum of 4 + 4 ^ Anf.
2. What is the fum of -A- + tt ? -^nf. -£- = £, by
Prob. VII.
Rule II. If the given fradions have different deno¬
minators, reduce them to a common denominator, by
Prob. VIII. then add the numerators, and place the
fum over the common denominator.
Ex. What is the fum of ?
f+ T = vl + ^ bY Prob- VIIL
and 44 + v-s-=: tbt-
Rule III. If mixt numbers be given, or if iftixt
numbers and fradions be given, reduce the mixt num¬
bers to improper fradions, by Prob. II ; then reduce
the fradions to a common denominator, by Prob. VIII,
and add the numerators.
Ex. What is the fum of 7-|' + 5t •
71+54 = V + t> by Prob. II.
and V + V =U+ U, by Prob. VIII.
and i-l + 4v = tv = 1 3tv» by Prob. I.
When mixt numbers, or mixt numbers and fradions,
are given, you may, with greater expedition, work by
the following rule, viz. reduce only the fradions to a
common de nominator, and add the fum of the fradions
f 5 F
3
3^0 A R I T H
to the integers. The above example wrought ia this
manner follows.
Ex. What is the fum of 7| + 5t ^
^ + -f-:= ttH" tx ^ tt — I'TT-
and 7 "b S "b Itt i Btt-
Rule IV. If any, or all of the given fra&ions, be
compound, firft reduce the compound fractions to limple
■ones, by Prob. IV.; then reduce the- fimple fradions to
a common denominator, by Prob. VIII. and add the nu¬
merators.
Ex. What is the .fum of 4 +
^ of 4~t8t> ^ Prob. IV.
and Ar-+l=#4 + #u» by Pr°b- VIII.
and.4|.+^=44=i4J, by Prob. I.
Rule V. If the given fradions be of different de¬
nominations, firft reduce them to the fame denomination,
by Cor. of Prob. IV. or by Prob. V.; then reduce the
fradions* now of one denomination, to a common deno¬
minator, by Prob. VIII. and add the numerators; or
reduce each of the given fradions feparateiy to value,
by Prob. VI. and then add their values.
Ex. What is the fum ofs. and -g 1. ?
Method I.
|s. = 4 i'cib^-jVl. by Cor. Prob. IV.
and ^ +by Prob. VIII.
and = ^441 . = l8 s. jd. by Prob. VI.
Method II.
- 7X20, _ .40,
by Prob. V.
and 4+ ,T°:=4"b't0* by Prob. VIII.
and f;+1 ~ “ " . . t. 1
_ 18s. 3d. byProb.I. andVI.
Met hod IIL
|S.=2H2a.=«r'd.=
4
= 17—6
18-3 J
by Prob. VI.
Sublrattion of- Vulgar Fradions.
Rule I. If the given fradions have the fame deno¬
minator, lubtrad the leffer numerator from the greater,
and place the remainder over the denominator.
Ex. From 4 fubtrad 4.
T—"T —V"
Rule II. If the given fradions have, different deno¬
minators, reduce them to a common denominator, by
Prob. VIII..: then fubtrad the leffer numerator from
the greater, and place the remainder over, the common
denominator.
Ex-. From 4 fubtrad 4*
4,-4= A, .-A, by Prob. Vdll;
and — A— A
Rule III. If it be required to fubtrad one mixt
number from another, or to fubtrad a fradion from a
mixt number,, reduce the mixt numbers to improper
M E T I C K.
fradions, by Prob. II; then reduce the fradions to a
common denominator, by Prob. VIII. and fubtrad the
one numerator from the other.
Ex. From 74 fubtrad j4-
74> 5i= V. AiS by Prob. II.
and ^, -fr = V, \4, by Prob. VIII.
and 6-g — Y = Y = 2-f = 2\, by Prob. I. and VII.
P,ule IV. If it be required to fubtrad a mixt num¬
ber, or a fradion, from an integer,, firft fubtrad the
fradion from an unit borrowed ; that is, fubtrad the nu¬
merator from the denominator, and place the remainder,
as a numerator, over the denominator, for the fradional
part of the anfwer: Then, for the unit borrowed, add x
to the integral part of the mixt number; fubtrad the
fum from the given integer; and prefix the remainder to
the fradional part of the anfwer. But when a fradioi*
is fubtraded from an integer, for the unit borrowed, take
1 from the given integer,. and prefix the remainder to
the fradional part of the anfwer.
Ex. 1. From 14 fubtrad y-f-
Here fay, 5 — 3=2; fo 4 >s the fradional part of
the anfwer : Then fay, 1 borrowed and 7 make 8, and
8 fubtraded from 14 leaves 6 ; which prefix to the frac¬
tional part : So the difference or anfwer is 64-
Ex. 2. From i2 fubtrad 4-
Here fay, 7— 3 = 4; fo 4 is the fradional part; then
fay, ? borrowed from 12, and 11 remains: So :i4 is
the difference, or anfwer.
Note, When an integer is given to be fubtraded from
a mixt number, you have only to fubtrad the given in¬
teger from the integral part of the mixt number; and
to the remainder annex the fradional part. Thus,
9-}—5=4t-
Rule V. If one or both of the given fradions be
compound, firft reduce the compound fradions to fimple
ones, by Prob. IV.; then reduce the fimple fradions to
a common denominator, by Prob. VIII.; and fubtrad
the one numerator from the other.
Ex. From 4 fubtrad 4 of
4 of 4=A, by Prob. IV.
and 4, A = 44, 4§, by Prob. VIII.
and 44—44—A> by Prob. VII.
Rule VI. When the given fradions are of different
denominations, firft reduce them to the fame denomina¬
tion, by Cor. of Prob. IV. or by Prob. V., then reduce
the fradions, now of one denomination, to a common
denominator, by Prob. VIII.; and fubtrad the one nu¬
merator from the other. Or, reduce each of the given
fradions, feparateiy, to value, by Prob. VI. ; and fub¬
trad the one value from the other.
Ex.. From 4I- fubtrad 4s-
Method I.
4's. = 4 of^l. =«£rI by Cor. Prob. IV.
and t> t4o’ by Prqb. VIII.
^44—T4^=4|41-=I4S. 4d..byProb,I. andVI.
Method IL
41-1*225. = Ys> bx Prob- v.
and 4=%Y, A, by Prob VIII.
and.'-j-Y —A— \V s. = 14 s. 4d. by Prob. I. and VI,
Method
|!.=3^s.=
4
a. 2X12
Ts-=; d.= V4d.=
A R I T H
Method III.
r. J.]
VS- = I5—o •
}> by Prob. VI.
*4—4>
Multiplication of Vulgar Fradions.
In multiplication of fra&ions there is no occafion to re¬
duce the given fraflions to a common denominator, as
in addition and fubtraSion: onlyj if a mixt number be
given, reduce it to an improper fra<5tion; if an integer
be given, reduce it to an improper fradlion, by putting
an unit for its denominator; if a compound fraction be
given, you may either reduce it to a fimple one, or, in-
ftead of the particle of infert the fign of multiplication:
then work by the following
Rule. Multiply the numerators for the numerator
of the product, and multiply the denominators for its de¬
nominator.
Examp. t. 4X f—
2. 4* St31!* V7 :=t4 —4tV=:44-
Note 1. If any number be multiplied by a proper frac¬
tion, the product will be lefs than the multiplicand; for
multiplication is the taking of the multiplicand as often
as the multiplier contains unity; and confequently, if
the multiplier be greater than unity, the product will be
greater than the multiplicand; if the multiplier be unity,
the product will be equal to the multiplicand; and if the
multiplier be lefs than unity, the product will, in the
fame proportion, be lefs than the multiplicand. Thus,
fuppoiing the multiplier to be 4 or t> t^ie Pr°duft, in
this cafe, will be equal to one half or to one third of the
multiplicand.
, 2. Mixt numbers may be multiplied without
reducing them to improper fraftions, by work-
ing as in the margin; where lirft multiply the
. integral parts, 54 by 24; then multiply
the integral parts crofs-ways into their altern
10 fradions, viz. 54 by 4> and the produd 27 fet
down; in like manner multiply 24 by 4-» and
° the produd 6 likewife fet down ; then add ; and
“ * to the fum annex the produd of the two
1329'8' fradions.
3. In multiplying a fradion by an integer, you have,
only to multiply the numerator by the integer, the put¬
ting one for the denominator being only matter of form.
And to multiply a fradion by its denominator is to take
away the denominator, the produd being an integer,
the fame with, or equal to the numerator. Thus,
4x8=7. For 4X|=5^—7*
4. If the numerators and denominators of two equal
fradions be multiplied crofs-ways, the produds will be
equal. Thus, if 4:=tV> then will 3X12 = 9X4; for
9X4 , ..
multiplying both by 9, we have 3 = ——; and multi¬
plying thefe by 12, we have 3X12 = 9X4. Hence, if
four numbers be proportional, the produd of the ex¬
tremes will be equal to the produd of the means: for if.
M E T I C K. 391
3 : 9 ; : 4 : 12, then and it has been proved,
that 3 X 12 = 9X4. Therefore if, of four proportional
numbers, any three be given, the fourth may eafily be
found, viz. when one of the extremes is fought, divide
the produd of the means by the given extreme; and
when one of the means is fought, divide the produd of
the extremes by the given mean.
y. In multiplying fradions, equal fadors above and
below may be dalhed or dropt. Thus, 4 of -fX^ of
4 X-j-X ^ X; and dropping the fadors 2, 3, 4, both
above and below, the produd is j-. In like man¬
ner, to facilitate an operation, a fador above and ano¬
ther below may be divided by the fame number : Thus,
4 X-nr=4 X4——C7~ =tx. Or we may exchange one
7X2
numerator for another : Thus, —
:=it*
6. To take any part of a given number, is to mul¬
tiply the faid number by the fradion. Thus, 4 320
is found thus, ^X J-j-0=xX J-8'-°= |-X T°=iT0:=200.
In like manner, 4 of 45-I-, is TX4J-|;:=T^"L8-i=T
X =-4;-=3q4- Hence, to reduce a
compound fradion to a fimple one, is to multiply the
parts of it into one another.
7. If a multiplicand of two or more denominations be
given to be multiplied by a fradion, reduce the higher
part or parts of the multiplicand to the loweft fpecies,
and then multiply. Thus, to multiply 8 1. io^s. by 4,
fay, 8l.=8X20s.= i6os. and i6a4-io4=i7o|s. =<^-5»
and 4X= -Hr*— = 1134ts• =L. 5 : 13 : Or»
without reducing, you may multiply the given multipli¬
cand by the numerator of the fradion, and divide the
produd by the denominator.
Examp. i. Multiply 4 by A* Prod.
2. Multiply 7f by Prod. 6$-?.
3. Multiply 8y by 94. Prod. 84-4.
The reafon of the rule may be fhewn thus: yX4=TT :
for y=4-|-, and -f of xr A 5 aH<i confequently ^ of
tt is -A*
The truth of the. rule may alfo be proved thus : Af-
fume two fradions equal to two integers, fuch as, 4, and
■|, equal to 2 and 3, and the produd of the fradions
will be equal to the produd of.the integers; for £xf
=Y=6, and 2X3=6.
Divijion of Vulgar Fradions.
In diviuon of fradions, if a mixt number be given,
reduce it to an improper fradion; if an integer be given,
put an unit for its denominator; if a compound fradion
be given, reduce it to a fimple one, and then work by
the following
Rule. Multiply crofs-ways, viz. the .numerator of
the divifor into the denominator of the dividend, for the
denominator of the quot; and the denominator of the
divifor into the numerator of the dividend, for the nu¬
merator of the quot.
Examp. i. -f) t(t4= itu=:
2> 4) 44 (—4) V 5 A — Sr-
3 • 4t) 4 (“A) 4 (Aw—A-
Note.,
392 A R I T II M
Note i. Tnftead of working divifion of fraflions as
taught above, you may invert the divifor, and then mul¬
tiply it into the dividend. Thus, in Example i. inllead
r)r(^> y°u may fay,
2. If any number be divided by a proper fraftion, the
quot will be greater than the dividend: for in divilion
the quot Ihews how often the divifor is contained in the
dividend; and confequently if the divifor be greater than
unity, the quot will be lefs than the dividend ; if the di-
yifor be unity, the quot will be equal to the dividend ;
and if the drvifor be lefs than unity, the quot will, in
the fame proportion, be greater than the dividend. Thus,
fuppofing the divifor to be £, or -f, the quot in this cafe
will be double or triple of the dividend.
3. To divide a fradlion by an integer, is only to mul¬
tiply the integer into the denominator of the fraction,
the numerator being continued. Thus, 7)|'( iV-
4. A mixt number may fometimes be divided by an
integer, with more eafe, in the following manner. Di¬
vide the integral part of the mixt number by the given
integer: and if there be no remainder, divide likewife
the fradtioh of the mixt number by the given integer, and
annex the quot to the integral quot formerly found.
But if, yi dividing the integral part, there happen to be
a remainder, prefix this remainder to the fradion for a
new mixt number; which reduce to an improper frac-'
tion : then divide the improper fradion by the given in¬
teger, and annex the quot to the integral quot formerly
found. Thus, if it be required to divide ij^ by 8,
fay, 8) 15(1, and 7 remains; which 7, prefixed to the
fradion, gives 7-|'for anew mixt number; and this, re¬
duced to an improper fradion, is 3?, and8)V('H :
the complete quot is -|4.
5. If the fadors of the numerator and denominator
of the quots, inllead of being adually multiplied, be
only conneded with the fign of multiplication, it will be
eafy to drop fuch fadors, above and below, as happen
to be the fame, thus: of
Or a fador above and below may be divided by
the fame number thus : Or
the fadors of the numerator of the quot may be ex-
changed, thus: =
6. To divide an integer by a fradion, is to divide the
produd of the denominator and integer by the numerator,
thus: 4)8^=~—=5X2 = 10.
7. If the divifor and dividend have the fame denomi¬
nator, you have only to divide the numerator of the di¬
vidend by the numerator of the divifor, thus: 4)i(=r j
, 5,,/8X3_,
for trlT 5x8_t-
8. If a dividend of two or more denominations be
given to be divided by a fradion, reduce the higher part
or parts of the dividend to the lowed fpecies, and then
divide. Thus, to divide 61. by 4, fay> 6 l.=
6 X 20 s. = 120; and 120 + 94= 1294s. ; and
H8-
E T I C K.
Or, Divide the given multiplicand by the numerator
of the fradion, and multiply the quot by the denomi¬
nator.
Examp. Divide L. 276 : 16 : 8 among four men,
A, B, C, D, fo that A, B, C, may have equal lhares,
and D only two thirds of one of their Ihares.
I + I + I+4 = 4+T + T + T:::::f4
L. s. d. L. s. d. L. 1. d.
11)276 16 8 (25 3 4X3 = 75 10 A.
X 3 = 75 xo B.
X3 = 75 10 C.
X 2 = 50 6 8 D.
Proof 276 16 8
The reafon of the rule will appear by confidering,
that the method here ufed is nothing elfe but the redu¬
cing the divifor and dividend to a common denominator,
and then dividing the one numerator by the other. Thus,
i) t (t> for reducing the divifor and dividend to a com¬
mon denominator, we have 1S>,-) T*T (=4.
The truth of the rule may alfo be proved by afluming
two fradions equal to two integers, fuch asr 4 and 46»
equal to 2 and 4, and the quot of the fradions will be
equal to the quot of the integers. Thus, 4) l-£ (41=
2, and 2) 4 (2.
The Simple Rule of Three in Vulgar Frail ions.
The queflion is dated as formerly taught in the rule
of three. The extremes muft be of one denomination.
Reduce mixt numbers and integers to improper fradions,
compound fradions to Ample ones, and then work by the
following rule, viz.
Multiply the fecond and third terms, and divide the
produd by the firft term ; that is, multiply the numera¬
tor of the firft term into the denominators of the fecond
and third, for the denominator of theanfwer; and mul¬
tiply the denominator of the firft term into the numera¬
tors of the fecond and third, for the numerator of the
anfwer.
I. Dir eft.
Quest. If 4 yard coft 4I* what will -s% yard coft ?
Yd. L. Yd.
If 4 : 7 :: -&•
Anf. 1 X9_=J21_9 = 9 - 3 =
3X8X10 3X2X10 3X2X2 2X2
| ] —3*20,. —60 — i;S.
4
II. Inverfe.
Quest. If 4 yard of cloth that is 2 yards wide, will
make a garment, how much of any other cloth that is
4 yard wide will make the fame garment ?
Bread, len. Bread.
Anf.
5X3X2,
3X4X1
i2i£=4 = 24 yards.
4
The
393
A R I T H M
The Compound Rule of Three in Vulgar Fratlions.
Quest. If acre of grafs be cut down by 2 men in
^ day, how many acres fhall be cut down by 6 men in
3 -f days ?
Men. acr. men.
Anf.
Anf.
day I ' 3f=T days-
3X3X60 _3X60'
4X4X3
4X4 4
Or thus:
3 X 1 X 3 X6X io_3 X6X tq_3 X3 X;_4f _
'2X2X4X1X3
1 ix acres.
■2X2X4 2X2
Chap. X. Rules of Practice.
When the firfl: term of a queftion in the rule of three
happens to be unity, the anfwer may frequently be found
more fpeedily and eafily than by a formal dating or work¬
ing of the rule of three; and the directions to be obfer-
ved in fuch operations are called Rules of Pradice.
The rules of practice naturally follow the doCtrine of
vulgar fractions, the operation being nothing elie but a
multiplying the number whofe price is required, by fuch
a fraction of a pound, of a {hilling, or of a penny, as
denotes the rate or price of one.
Thus, if the price of 24 yards, at 6 s. 8 d. per yard,
be demanded, the anfwer is found by multiplying 24 by
-f, the fraction of a pound equivalent to 6 s. 8d. viz.
T4Xx= y4=81.
Hence, it is obvious, that to multiply a number by a
fraction whofe numerator is unity, is to divide the faid
number by the denominator of the fraction. But if the
numerator of the fraction be not. unity, you muft firft
multiply the given number by the numerator, and then
divide the product by the denominator. Thus, if the
rate be 13 s. 4d.=yl. the price of 24 yards is found by
faying, ‘-/X^y8=161.; or take of the given num¬
ber twice.
When the fraction denoting the rate happens to be
compound, the produCt or anfwer is found by dividing
the given number by one of the denominators of the
compound fraction, the quot by another, and the next
quot by the third, eSrc. Thus, if the rate be 2 far¬
things^ of.!,1^ of -j^l. the price of 1440 yards is
found by faying, *—^—720, and 7T\°=6o, and £§=3 1.
When the rate is expreffed by two or more fimple
fractions, connected with the fign +, the product or an¬
fwer is found by dividing the given number fucceffively
by the feveral denominators, and then adding the quot.
Thus, if the rate be 3s.=Viiy + vTr^ t'ie Price of 80
yards is found by faying, -f-§=8, and t°=4, and 8+4=
12I.
The fractions equivalent to any number of farthings
under 4, to any number of pence under 12, and to any
number of {hillings under 20, are exhibited in the fol¬
lowing tables.
Vol. I. No. 17. 3
E TIC K.
Farthings.
TAB
of a penny, f
table II.
o f a Jhill.
$
t+t,
T+i+T
L E T.
of a /h illing.
x tV
iof tV
io£ 7V
TABLE
of a pound.
.-To+A
/. d.
9
13
13 4
H
•5
17
of a pound.
xOf'A of-jvj
^ofTV°frs-
^ofvrOfAr
III.
of a pound.
T o+tV
■r’o'hrV > 0
t%> or £
r+Ar
t9o
tW*
The fractions in Table II. Become compound frac¬
tions of a pound, by annexing (of-jL.) to each of them.
Thus, i d. is -rT of ^ 1.; and 5 d. is ^ of TV+s °f ts !•
&c.
The variety that occurs in the rules of practice arifes
chiefly from the different rates, or prices, of one thing,
as a yard, a pound, an ounce, and may be redaced
to the eight cafes following, viz.
The rate may be, 1. Farthings under four. 2. Pence
under twelve. 3. Pence and farthings. 4. Shillings
under twenty. 5. Shillings, pence, and farthings. 6,
Pounds. 7 Pounds, {hillings, pence, and farthings.
8. The given number may confifl: of integers and parts.
Case I. When the rate is farthings, under four.
Rule. Divide the given number by the denominator
of the fraction denoting the rate, as contained in Tab. IJ
viz. if the rate be 1 or 2 farthings, divide by 4 or 2,
the quot will be pence; and the remainder, in dividing
by 4, will be farthings, and in dividing by 2, it will be
1 halfpenny: then divide the pence by 12, the quot will
be (hillings, and the remainder pence, laflly, divide the
(hillings by 20, the quot will be pounds, and the re¬
mainder {hillings. But if the rate is 3 farthings, firft
multiply the given number by the numerator 3,,and then
divide as above directed.
1 Ex. 1.
^4859, at 1 f. f
tV 12 14 3 TT
tsV io|i—2d.
L.y 1 2!
Case II. When the rate is pence, under twelve.
Rule. Divide the given number by the denominator
of the fraction denoting-the rate, as- contained in Table
II. and you have the anfwer in (hillings; which reduce
into pounds, by dividing by 20.
i S G Ex. 1.
Ex. '2.
8347, at 2 f.
4i73-id.
34I7—9d.
L.17 7 9i
3
394
A
Ex. r.
31S, at i d.
R I T H
Ex. 2.
53161, at ad.
MET I C K.
2. When the rate is an odd number of (hillings.
Ex. 1. Ex. s.
635, at 1 s. 422, at 3 s.
L.3 8 2 JL.44 6
Note, The remainders at the firft divifion in the a-
hore examples are the fame with the rate. Thus, in
Ex. 1. every remainder is id.
Case III. When the rate is pence and farthings.
Rule. The pence muft be fome aliquot part of a
{hilling.; and, at the fame time, the farthings fome aliquot
part of the pence; and if they be not fo given, divide
the pence into two or more fuch parts, fo as the farthings
may he fome aliquot part of the lowed divifion of the
pence. Then, beginning with the highefl divifion of
the pence, divide !>y the denominators of the fradliohs
denoting the aliquot parts.
L.ji, 15 s. 42 4
21 2
L. 63, 6 s.
Note 1. The reafon of multiplying by half the num¬
ber of (hillings in the rat^ will appear by. copfidering,
that thefe are the numerators of the fradtions. denoting
the rate. Thus, 2 s. is T*^l. and 4 s. is T^l. and 6 s.
is-^1. and each unit in the produdt is two (hillings.
The-divifion by the denominator 10 is performed by cut¬
ting off the right-hand figure of the prodijft, and the fi¬
gure fo cut off is the remainder ; and as each unit in the
remainder is two (hillings, the double of them is the re¬
mainder in (hillings.
Note 2. From Ex. 1. we may learn, that when the
rate is 2 s. the price is found by doubling the right-hand
figure of the given number for (hillings, and die other ii-
gure or figures are pounds.
Note 3. In Ex. 2 the price may alfo be had by ta¬
king f of the given number ; and in this way every re¬
mainder will be 4 *.
Note 4. By reverfing the operation, from the price
knd ariy even rate given, we may readily find the quantity
of goods, viz. Multiply the price by 10, that is, to
the price annex a cipher, and divide the product by half
the rate.
In Ex. x. work firft for 1 d. ; which being ^ s. di-
■fide the given number by. the denominator 12, and. the
quot is (hillings, and the remainder pence ; then, be-
caufe 1 farthing is-^d. divide the former quot by 4, and
the fnm of the quots is the price in (hillings ; which di¬
vide by 20.
In Ex. 2 the rate i^d. being an aliquot part of a
(hilling, the fecond method is (horter and better than the
firft.
Case IV. When the rate is (hillings under twenty.
Rule, Multiply the given number by the numerator
of the fra<3ions contained in Tab. III. and divide the
produft by the denominators. Or, inftead of this ge¬
neral rule, take the two particular ones following.
1. If the rate be an even number of (hillings, multiply
the given number by half the number of (hillings in the
rate, always doubling the right-hand figure of the pro-
dud for (hillings, and the reft are pounds.
2. If the rate be an odd number of (hillings, work for
the next lefler even number of (hillings, as above ; and
for the odd (hilling take of the given number.
Exam?• 1. When the rate is an even-number of (hil¬
lings.
Ex. 1. Ex. 24
436, at 2,s. 127, at 4s.
1 2
Ex. 1. How many yards, at 14 s. may be bought
for 49]. 7)490(70 yards. Anf.
Ex. 2. How many gallons, at 8 s. may be bought
for 5001>? 4)5000(1250 gallons. Anf.
Cask V. When the rate is (hillings and pence, or
(hillings, pence, and farthings.
Rule I. If the rate be (hillings and pence which
make an aliquot part of a pound, divide the given num¬
ber by the denominator of the fradion denoting the rate ;
the quot is pounds, and each unit of the remainder is e-
qual to the. rate.
I Ex. r .
TJyj 354, at i s. 8 d.
L.29, 10.
Ex. 2.
v' 443> at 2 s. 6 d.
!l. 55 7 6
Rule II. If the rate be no aliquot part of a pound,
but may be divided into fuch parts, divide it according¬
ly, work for the parts feparately, and then add.
6 s,
2 s, 6 d.
Ex.
427, at 8 s-.
128
5-3
7 6
L.l8i 9, 6
3 s. 4d.
540, at 5 s.
4d.
9°
54
L.144
« R.VLE III
h, 43, 12.S.
L. .25, 8 s.
A R I T H M E T
Role HI. ff the rate be no alicjtiot part of a pound,
and cannot readily be divided into fuch parts, divide it
into parts whereof one at leaft may be an aliquot part of
a pound, and the fubfequent part, or parts, each an ali¬
quot part of fome prior part.
3d-
Ex. i.
3jo}6, at i s. jd.
175 6
43 16
9)5, at i s.
iot d.
| L.8 i3
Case VI, When the rate is pounds.
Rule. Multiply the given number by the rate, and
the product is the price in pounds.
Ex. 1. Ex. 2.
42, at 2 I. 13, at 8 I.
L. 84 104
Case VII. When the rate is pounds and Ihillings,
or pounds, {hillings, pence, and farthings.
Rule I. If the rate be pounds and {hillings, multi¬
ply the given, number by the pounds, and work, for the
fhillings as in Cafe IV.
Ex. 1.
46, at 1 I. 4 s.
9 4
L. 55 4
Ex. T.
82, at 4I. I0'S».
328
41
L 369
i^d.
213
106 10
21 6
10 13
2 13
1 6
I G
Ex. 1.
at il. 13s
4id.
L.355 8 io£
3l
6s,
2s. 6d,
3d.
id.
id.
395
Ex. 2.
37, at 3 1. 8 s.
ioid.
4 12
9
3
L.127 7 7t
Case VIII. When the given number confiils of in
pegers and parts.
Rule. Work for the price of the integers as alrea¬
dy taught; and for the part or parts, take a proportional
part or parts of the rate.
6s. 8d.
t y.d'
Ex. 1. 1
Tards.
72o£, at 6s. 8d.
per yd.
24O
L.24O
2S-, 6d.
2 s.
£* yd-
Ex. 2.
Yards.
ii6i, at 4 s. 6d.
per yd.
L.26 43
An operation in the rules of practice may be proved
by running over the feveral Heps a fecond time, by
working the fame queftion a different way, cr by the.
rule of three.
G« A P. XI. O/” D E C I M A L
Note. When the rate is more than 1 1. and lefs than-
al. as in Ex. 1. we have no occafion to draw a line uo*'
der the given number, it being efteemed fo many pounds,
and the parts for the {hillings or pence are added up
with it.
Rule II. If the rate be pounds-, with {hillings and
pence that make fome aliquot part of a pound, or are di-
vifible into aliquot parts, or into {hillings and fome ali¬
quot part or parts ; then multiply the given number by
the pounds, and work for the {hillings and, pence as iu.
CafeV. Rule Lor IE
31
29,6d.
Ex. 1.
54, atL. 3:2:6.
162
6 15
L.168 15
5l-
3s. 4d.
Ex. 2.
43, at £.5:3:4.
215
7 3 4
L.222 3. 4
Rule. III. If the rate be pounds, with fhillings,
pence, and farthings, that cannot readily be refolved in¬
to aliquot parts of a pound ; multiply the given number
by the pounds ; and then work for the {hillings, pence,
and farthings, as in Cafe V. Rule III.
I. Notation.
A Fraction having 10, 100, 1000, or unity with*,
any number of ciphers annexed to it, for a denomina¬
tor, is called a decimal fraflion; fuch as, T\j, -jV^,
t: O C o > T-oo o’S' . ■ •
In decimal fractions, as in vulgar, the denominator
{hews into howt.many parts the unit or integer is divi¬
ded,. and the nnmerator {hews how many of thefe
parts the fraction contains^. Thus, if the fra&ion be
-j%, the unit is divided into ten equal parts, and the
fradion contains nine of thefe parts; and confequently,
if the unit or integer be a pound Sterling, the value of
fuch a fradion is eighteen {hillings.
We may conceive the denominator of a decimal
fradion to be formed by dividing the . unit into 10 equal
parts, and each of thefe parts into 10 other equal parts,
each of thefe again into iaother equal parts, and fo on,
a. far as neceffary ; and hence a decimal fradion will
always be fo many tenths, or fo many tenths of ^ or
fo many tenths of ^ of &c.; and by reducing the
compound fradion to a fimple one, we have the decima 1,
Thus, thj a'-ff tV— vtots'
39# A R I T H R
Or we may conceive the denominator of a decimal
to be formed by the continual multiplication of unity
into 10, as often as there are ciphers in it. Thus,
x'X 10= 10, and 1X10X10 = 100, and 1 X 10X 10X 10
— IOOO, <bc. And becaufe the fraftions T5-.ye?o> ^9o%3--
c':c. have' the: highelt numerators poffible, it is plain,
that the number of figures or places in the numerator of
a decimal,can never exceed the number of ciphers in the
denomnator.
It is ufual to write down only the numerator of a de-
rhnal fraftion,-omitting the denominator ; and when
the numerator has the fame number of figures or places
as the denominator has ciphers, it is done by writing
down the' figures of the numerator, and prefixing a point,
to diftinguifh them from a whole number. So is writ¬
ten thus, .7 ; and is written thus, .25. The point
'thus prefixed is called the decimal point.
But when the numerator has not fo many figures or
places as there are ciphers in the denominator, the de-
fe£t is fupplied by prefixing a cipher for every figure
wanting, and then placing the decimal point on the left.
So T^o Is written thus, .03 ; and thus, .0075 ;
and. tus-wo thus> -0005.
From this manner of notation, it is eafy to read a
decimal,.or to know its denominator, viz. imagine 1
to Hand under the decimal point, arid a cipher under
every decimal place. Thus, .9 is 790, and .48 is
and .05 is and .007 is 7^, and .00036 is
Hence it is plain, that decimals, like integers, de-
creafe from the left to the right, and increafe from the
right to the left, in a decuple proportion. On the con¬
trary, any decimal figure, by being removed one place
toward the left, becomes ten times greater.
An integer, by annexing ciphers, is raifed to higher
places on the left, and may by this means have its value
increafed to infinity. On the other hand, a decimal,
by prefixing ciphers, is deprefled to lower places on the
right, and may by this means have its value diminilhed
to infinity.
Ciphers annexed to decimals do not change the va¬
lue of the decimals. Thus, .50=5, and .500=5, for
. 50 = -• S ; and T-erj§§ = t^= • S •
Decimals may be reiolved into conintuent parts, and
the parts may be read, feparately, thus, .847=8 +
.04+.007 =^+7^3+T^-
In decimals the figure next the point, being the firft
decimal place, is fometimes called primes, and the fe-
cond figure from the point is called feconds, the next
thirds. See. Thus, in .875 the figure 8 is primes, 7 is
fecohds, and 5 is thirds.
From this brief account of the nature of decimals,
it follows, that the manner of operation in decimals
will be the fame as in whole numbers ; and alfo, that
the fame number may be differently expreffed, accor¬
ding as the integer is chofen. Thus, the time fince our
Saviour’s birth may be written thus, 1769; or thus,
176.9; or thus, 17.6:9; or thus, 1.769; or thus, .1769,
according as one year, a decad, a century, a chiliad,
or myriad, is ufed as the integer. Hence.arifes the
“Tuperior excellency of decimal arithmetic, above every
[ E T I C K.
other fort of numerical, computation ;• as will appear
in the fequel.
II. Riduflion of Decimals.
Prob. I. To reduce a vulgar fraction to a decimal.
Rule. To the numerator of the vulgar fraftion affix
a point or comma, then annex a competent number of
ciphers, and divide by the denomihator; the qpot is the
numerator of the decimal, and the cyphers annexed ffi'ow
the number of decimal places.
Examp, I. Reduce 7 to a decimal ?
Here to the numerator 1 annex one cipher, 2)i.o(.5
and dividing by the denominator 2, the quot 1 o
is 5, and o remains ; and becaufe a Angle ci- —
pher only was annexed to the numerator, the (o)
decimal numerator will confift but of one fi¬
gure, namely 5 ; to which, therefore, prefix the deci¬
mal point. So t=+*
Hence appears the reafdn of the rule ; namely,
2 : 1 :: to : 5; that is, as the vulgar denominator to
the vulgar numerator, fo is the decimal denominator to
the decimal numerator.
Examp. II. Reduce ^ to a decimal.
To the numerator 3, annex two ciphers ; 4)3.oo(.7{
and, dividing by the denominator, the quot 28
gives 75 for the numerator of the decimal,   
two ciphers having been annexed. So 20
i=.7S. 20
(°)
Though ciphers may be annexed at pleafure, yet It
is the ciphers ufed that determine the number of de¬
cimal places in the quot; and at firft it is fufficient to
annex fo many as ferve to complete the firft dividual,
leaving room to annex more as you proceed in the ope¬
ration ; or rather annex the other ciphers to the remain¬
ders, without giving them a place in the dividend.
The firft dividual alfo ffiows whether ciphers ought
to be prefixed to the quot, and how many. Thus, if
•the firft dividual take in only one of the annexed ci¬
phers, the figure put in the quot is primes, and no ci¬
pher to be prefixed. If the firft dividual comprehend
two of the annexed ciphers, the figure put in the quot
is feconds, and one cipher muft be prefixed. If the
firft dividual comprehend three of the annexed ciphers,
the figure put in the quot is thirds, and two ciphers muft
be prefixed, <bc. Hence, in reducing a vulgar frac¬
tion to a decimal, the natural and eafy way is, to place
firft the decimal point in the quo't, and after it a cipher
or ciphers, or the quotient-figure, as the firft dividual
direrils.
In reducing a vulgar frarilion to' a decimal, if o at laft
remains, as in all the above examples, the decimal is
precifely equal to. the vulgar fra&ion, and is called a
nite or terminate decimal.
In finite decimals, the denominator is always fome a-
Jiquot part of the numerator increafed by annexing ci¬
phers; and fuch decimals, take their rife'from vulgar
fractions whofe denominator is 2 or 5, or fome power of
2 or
A R I T H
3 or 5, or the product of fome of their powers. See
Chap. XII. and Algebra, Chap. III.
The powers of numbers are fometimes exprefled by
indices or exponents placed at the corners of the num¬
bers. Thus, 2* fignifies the fecond power of 2, and j3
fignifies the third power of 5 ; and 104 fignifies the fourth
power of 10, &c. The index of the root or firft power
is feldom expreffed.
Any power of 2 multiplied into the like power of
gives a product equal to the fame power of 10; as ap¬
pears from the following fpecimen of the powers of 2,
5, and 10.
5 - J
5l= 25
53— 125
S4= 625
Ss= 3125
5fi=15625
57 = 78i25
<bc.
2 X 5 = rof= 10
4X 25 = io1 = 100
8X I25=io3= 1000
16 X 62*5= io4= 10000
32X 3125= 10s = 10000.0
64X15625= 106 — IOOOOOO
1128X78125= 107 = JOOOOOOO
I
The produd of two different powers of 2 and 5, is e-
qual to the produd that will arife by raifing 10 to the
.power denoted by the leffer given index, and then multi¬
plying this power of 10 into that power of the other num¬
ber which is denoted by the difference of the two given
exponents. Thus,
26 X5* =64 X25 = to* X 24 = 100 X 16= 1600
2* X5<S = 4X 15625 = 10* X54 = 100X625 = 62500
From thefe remarks it is eafy to perceive, that 2 or
5, or any of their powers, or produd of their powers,
will meafure 10 or its powers, viz. 100, 1000, be.
or their multiples, fuch as, 26, 200, 2000, be. 30,
300, 3000, i&r.; and fuch every numerator becomes
by having ciphers annexed; and therefore 2 or 5, or
their powers, or produd of their powers, ufed as a, de¬
nominator, will divide any numerator with a competent
number of ciphers annexed, and leave no remainder ;
and confequently the decimal thence refulting will be
finite.
If the numerator of the vulgar fradion he unity, and
the denominator any fingle power of 2 or 5, there will
be as many decimal places in the quot as there are units
in the index of the given power. Thus, i6=24 gives
a decimal of four places, viz. .0625 ; and, 125
= 53 gives a decimal of three places, viz. x|T=.oo8.
When the denominator is the produd of like powers
of 2 and 5 ; in this cafe, fuch a produd being equal to
the like power of 10, and any power of 10 being equal
to 1, with as many ciphers annexed as there are units in
the index, it follows, that there will ftill be as many de¬
cimal places in the quot as there are-units in the index,
either of 2, of 5, or 10. Thus, 8 X 125 = 23 X y3
=io3=iooo, gives a decimal of three places, viz.
TsVer =-ooi.
When the denominator is the produd of different
powers of 2 or 5, find what power of 10, and what
power of 2 or 5, upon being multiplied, will give the
fame produd, as is taught above; and the fum of the
indices Ihevvs the number of decimal places ; thus,
Vol. I. No. 17. 3
M E T I C K. 397
26 X 5* = 10* X24; and the fum of the indices, 2 + 4
— 6, gives the number of decimal places, viz. rz'oo ^
.000625.
And, in general, to find what number of decimal
places any fuch vulgar fradion will give, divide the de¬
nominator by 2, 5, or 10, till the laft quotient be r, and
the remainder o; and the number of divifors (hews
the number of decimal places. Thus, ^ gives a deei-
2)2)2)
mal of four places; for 2)16(8(4(2(1. And -,4-5- gives
, 5)5)
a decimal of three places; for 5)125(25(5(1. And
▼oVo- gives a decimal of three places; for 10)1000
10)10)
(100(10(1. And gives a decimal of fix places ;
10) 2) 2)2)2)
for 10)1-600(160(16(8(4(2(1.
If the denominator of a vulgar fradion be neither 2
nor 5, nor any of their powers, nor produd of their
powers, fuch a denominator will not divide the nume¬
rator with annexed ciphers without a remainder ; and
the decimal thence refulting is called infinite, or inter-
'min ate.
Of infinite or interminate decimals, there are two
forts. For fome conftantly repeat the fame figure; and
are called repeating decimals, repeaters, or fingle repe-
iends. Others repeat a circle of figures ; and on that
account are called circulating decimals, circulates, or
compound repetends.
Examp. III. Reduce to a decimal.
Here the remainder being ftill the fame, 3)l.o(.3’
viz. 1, the fame figure will conftantly be re- 9
peated in the quot. —
Repeating decimals are of two kinds: viz. fome con-
fift only of the repeating figures, fuch as the examples
above ; and thefe are called pure repeaters; others have
one or more digits or ciphers betwixt the decimal point
and the repeating figure; and thefe are called mixt re¬
peaters ; and the digits or ciphers on the left of the re¬
peating figures are called the finite part of fuch deci¬
mals.
Pure repeaters take their rife from vulgar fra&ions
whofe denominator is 3, or its multiple 9; and are but
few in number.
Mixt repeaters derive their origin from vulgar frac¬
tions whofe denominator is the produdl of 3 into 2 or
5, or into fome of their powers, or product of their
powers ; and fuch denominators may be confidered as
the product of two component parts, whereof one is 2
or 5, or fome of their .powers, or product of tlieir powers ;
and hence the finite part. The other component part is
3 ; and hence the repeating figure.
Examp. IV. Reduce T4r to a decimal.
Here the repeater is mixt, the finite part 15)4.o(.2^
being 2, and the repeating figure b. 30
* t 00
90
(*°) ,
5 H We
t
598 A E I T H M E T I C K.
We now reGlve Cuea denominators into their compo¬
nent parts, and divide the numerator by one of thefe
parts, and then divide^ the quot by the other. Thus,
ij=;X3-
5)4.o(,8 and 3).8(.2«
40 6
(o) *20
18
The number of places in the finite part of a mixt re¬
peater may be afcertained from the number of units in
the index of the powers of 2 or 5.
And, univerfally, to find the number of places in the
finite part of fuch fra&ions, divide the denominator firft
by 3, and then divide the quot by 2, 5, or 10, till the
laft quot be 1, and o remain; and the number of divi-
fors, excluding 3, (hows the number of places in the fi¬
nite part.
Repeating decimals are ufually marked by a dafh
through the right-hand figure, as in tire examples a-
bove: But fome chufe to mark them by a point fet over
the repeating figure, thus, .3, .26. The remainder
where the repetition begins is commonly marked with
an afteriflc.
Becaufe any quotient multiplied by the divifor repro¬
duces the dividend, it follows, that any decimal multi¬
plied by the denominator of the vulgar fraction from
v/hich it refulted, will reproduce the numerator with the
annexed ciphers. Thus, if .75, the decimal of i, be
multiplied by 4, it v/ill reproduce the numerator 3 and the
two annexed ciphers.
Now, fuppofe the given decimal to be a repeater ;
fach as 3-, refulting from the vulgar fradtion •*, if the
repeating decimal be multiplied by the denominator 3,
it will, by carrying at 9 on the right hand, reproduce
the numerator 1 with the annexed cipher. In like man¬
ner, if the repeater .(? —-f, be multiplied by 3, it will,
by carrying at 9 on the right hand, reproduce the nu¬
merator 2 with the annexed cipher. Again, if the repeater
./—f, be multiplied by the denominator. 9, it will, by
carrying at 9 on the right hand, reproduce the numera¬
tor x with the annexed cipher. And, if the mixt re¬
peater .2# =tt’ be multiplied by the denominator 15,
it will, by carrying at 9 on the right hand, reproduce
the numerator 4 with the two annexed ciphers.
From thefe remarks we may conclude, that the right-
hand figure of every repeating decimal is ninth-parts:
and the fame truth may be evinced by refolving the de¬
cimal into its conftituent parts, in the following manner.
The vulgar fra&ion reduced to a decimal gives
.jfy, &c.; and this repeater refolved into decimal confti-
tuent parts, becomes T7g. + 4-6c. to infinity.
But if we edeem the- right-hand figure to be ninth-parts,
we have xV + f ofnny—-i^+^=|45 + 7ffo:=:7TO=f>
the given vulgar fraction. And as the vulgar fraftion
4 gives 7, fo f gives .^9; that is, $9 = £= 1. And,
univerfally, a feries of nines infinitely continued is equal
to. unity in the place on the left hand; thus, .$99 =
1; and .o$99 = .i; and .00^9= .01. and 44.^9 = 45'.
Hence may be afcertained the value of an infinite
feries decreafing in a decuple proportion. Thus, 4"
Teo-+ &c- —■ -Afld -/g. 4*
:= ‘S';
If the denominator of a vulgar fraction be neither 2
nor 5, nor any power of 2 or 5, nor any produdt of
their powers ; nor 3, nor 9, nor any product of 3 into
2 or 5, or into fome of their powers, or produdt of
their powers, the decimal refulting from fuch a vulgar
fradlion will circulate.
Circulates, like repeaters, are of two forts, viz. pure
and mixt. A pure circulate confifts of the figures of
the circle only; as .09, 09, 6c. or 18, 18, 6c. A
mixt circulate has a finite part betwixt the decimal point
and the figure that begins the circle; as .0, 45, 45,
6c.-, or .32, 142857, 142857, 6c. Some chufe to
diftinguifh the finite part from the circle, and one circle
from another, by a comma, as above. Others dafii the
fir ft and laft figure of the circle. It is likewife ufual to
mark the remainder where the new circle begins, by af¬
fixing an afterifk.
Examp. V. Reduce TV to a decimal.
The denominator 11 gives a pure ii)i.oo(.09,09,
circle of two figures. 99
* 100
99
tV — . 18, 18, Ft = .63, 63,
tt = ‘2 7, 27, A = -72, 72,
-rt — • 45> 45» tt—:*9C,»9°»
t'x =
It is eafy to perceive, that if any of the vulgar frac¬
tions in the above fpecimen have both its numerator and
denominator multiplied by 9, there will arife a new vul¬
gar fra<ftion of the fame value, whofe numerator will be
the figures of the circle, and its denomirator the like
number of 9’s. Thus,
3 2i9_17 .7X9_fi,
11X9-^ and 11X9-^*
As the denominator 11, whereof 99 is a multiple,
gives a pure circulate of two places, fo any denomina¬
tor, whereof 999, or 9999, or 99999, 6c. are multi¬
ples, will give a pure circulate of three, four, five, 6c.
places; that is, of as many places as there are p’s in
the multiple. And fuch denominators are all the prime
numbers, except 2, 3, and 5, viz. 7, 11, 13, 17, 19,
2?> 29> 3rr 37> 41, 6c.- alfo their produds into 3,
viz. 21, 33, 39, 51, 57,-69, 6c. Such too are all
the powers of 3, except 3 and 9, viz. 27, 81, 243,
729, 2187, &£•.
The reafon is plain: for if any divifor, as 37, divide
999, without a remainder, it will alfo divide 1000, and
leave a remainder of 1, to begin a new circle.
To find how many places the circle will confift of,,
divide a competent number of 9’s by any of the above
denominators, continuing the operation till o remain ; and
the number of 9’sufed willihow the number of places.
Thus,
399
A R T T H
Thus, 7)999999 fix places. Thus, 27)999 three places.
# ’ V 37
The number of figures in a circle, when fome power
of 3 is the denominator, may alfo be found thus : Di¬
vide the given denominator by 9, and the number of u-
nits in the quot will be equal to the number of figures in
the circle. Thus, 9)27(3 placesi Thus, 9)81(9
places, tec.
If 3 divide a repeater whofe repeating figure is not a
multiple of 3, the quot will be a pure circulate of three
places. Thus, 3)./n(.037, and 3).^yy(.i85:, and
3)i77(-2J9-
If 3 divide a pure circulate, the circle not being a
multiple of 3, the quot will be a pure circulate of thrice
as many places as the circle of the dividend. 1 hus,
5)'°37»o37»o37( 012345:679.
Mixt circulates take their rife from fra&ions whofe
denominators are the prime numbers 7, 11, 13, 17, 19,
23, 29, <bc. multiplied into 2, 5, or 10, or into fome of
their powers, or produdt of their powers.
Examp. VI. Reduce to a decimal.
28)9.o(.32,142857,14 The denominator 28:=7X
84
60
56
*40
28
2X2, gives a mixt circulate,
confiffing of the finite part 32^
and a circle of fix figures or
places, whofe fum is equal to
the product of 9 into half the
number of figures; thaiis, 9X3
-27.
120
112
8
The number of places, both in the finite part and in
the circle, may be afcertained thus: Divide the deno¬
minator of the vulgar fra&icn by 10, 5, or 2, as often
as poffible, and the number of divifors will fnow the
number of places in the finite part; make the laft quot
a :divifor, and the dividend any competent number of p’s;
continue the operation till o remain, and the number of
9’s ufed.wtll be equal to the number of places in the
M E T I C K.
circle. Thus, 10)20500(2050(205(41; and 41)99999
(2439, and c remains. So you may conclude, that the
finite part will confift of three places, and the circle of
five.
Univerfally, any vulgar fraction being given, we may
determine whether the decimal thence refulting will be
finite or infinite ; and if infinite, whether pure or mixt ;
with the number of places, <6y\ in the following manner.
Reduce the given vulgar fradion to its loweft terms,
then divide the denominator by 10, 5, or 2, as often as
poffible; and if the laft quot be unity, without any re¬
mainder, the decimal is finite, amd the number Of divi¬
fors (hews the number of decimal places.
If the laft quot be 3, or any power of 3, the refulting
decimal will be a mixt repeater, the number of wbofe fi¬
nite places will be equal to the number of divifors.
If the laft quot cannot be divided by 2, 5, 10, or 3,
the refulting decimal will be a mixt circulate; and the
way of finding the number of places, both in the finite
part and circle, is taught above.
If the denominator of the given vulgar fradion can
be divided, neither by 2, 5, nor 10, the refulting deci¬
mal will be a pure repeater, or a pure circulate, accor¬
ding as the denominator is 3 or 9, or fome of the prime
numbers, 7, 11, 13, ^c.; as has been already explained.
Every vulgar Yradicn may be reduced to a decimal,
finite or infinite; that is, to a finite decimal, to a re¬
peater, or a circulate. For if the denominator divide
the numerator with ciphers annexed, fo as to leave no
remainder, the refulting decimal is finite. If the re¬
maining figure be always the fame, the refulting decimal
will be a repeater. If neither of thefe be the cafe, yet,
becaufe the divifor is a finite number, the remainder at
laft muft either be the fame with the numerator of the
Tulgar fradion, or the fame with fome preceding remain¬
der, and then a new circle begins; and confequently the
refulting decimal will be. a circulate.
Becaufe in circulates the circle runs on fometimes to
16, 18, 22, 28, 81, 243, 6c. places, and becaufe, in
decimals of every fort, the finite part runs fometimes on
to many places, fuch circulates, or finite parts, may*
without any fenfible error, be limited at five or fix places,
and ufed as,finites: for five decimal places, divide the
integer into 100,000 equal parts, and all the lofs that
can be occafioned by fuch limitation, is kfs than one hun¬
dred thoufandth part of the integer. And in moft cafes,
the decimal may be limited at three places, which divide
the integer into 1000 equal parts.
Circulates, or finite parts, thus limited, are called a/>-
proximale decimals \ and are fometimes marked with -}-
or — annexed, according as the right-hand figure is ta¬
ken lefs or greater than juft: for in limiting the decimal,
if you forefee that the fucceeding figure of the quot
would be 6 or 7, or any figure above 5, you lefien the
error by increafing the right-hand figure of the approxi¬
mate by unity.
Prob. II. To reduce the parts of coin, 6'c. to de¬
cimals.
Rule. Convert the given part or parts to a vulgar
fraSion..!
400
ARITH METIC K.
fraction of the integer, and then reduce the vulgar frac¬
tion to a decimal.
Ex. i. Reduce 9 pence to the decimal of a {hilling.
d. s.
9=t9z and i2)9.o(.7j of a (hilling.
84
Here the fradHon ^; and 
the denominator 4 = 2X2 gives 60
a finite decimal of two places. 60
(o)
Ex. 2. Reduce 9 pence to the decimal of a pound.
d. L.
9—riv 24o)9.oo(.03.7s of a pound.
7 20
The fradHon T|^=^;
and the denominator 80=
10X2X2X2 gives a finite
decimal of four places.
Ex. 3. Reduce 16 s. 6 d. to the decimal of a pound.
/. d. L.
16 6 = ^| 240) 198.o(.825 L.
12 1920
Prob. IV. To reduce adecimal to value.
Rule. Multiply the given decimal by the number of
parts of the next inferior denomination contained in an
unit of the integer ; and from the produdt point off fo
many figures to the right hand as there are places in the
given decimal. On the left hand of the point are parts,
and on the right a decimal of one of thefe parts ; which
decimal muft be reduced in the fame manner to the next
inferior denomination, and from that to the next, and
fo on to the lowed:; the feveral figures on the left of
the points are parts ; and if there be dill fome figure or
figures on the right, they are a decimal of the lowed of
the parts.
198
The fraction 4||- = |4='^;
and the denominator 40=10X2
X2 gives a finite decimal of three
places.
6 00
4 80
1 200
1 200
(°)
Prob. III. To reduce the remainder of a divifion to
a decimal.
Rule. The remainder being the numerator, and the
divifor the denominator of a vulgar fradHon, after placing
the decimal point on the right of the integral part of the
quot, annex ciphers to the remainder ; then continue the
divifion till o remain, or till the quot repeat or circulate,
or till you think proper to limit the decimal; and the
number on the right of the point is a decimal of the in¬
teger expreffed in the quot.
Example I.
Divide 513I.among 36men.
L.
36)513(14.25
36
Example 2.
Divide 176 s. among 24
boys.
24)176(7.3'
168
Rein. 80
72
(g)
Example 1.
Reduce .875 1. to value.
L. s. d.
.875=17 6
Example 2.
Reduce .7691 1. to value.
L. s. d. f.
.7691 = 15 4 2
d. 4.584
f. 2.336
The reafon of pointing the produdt, as the rule di-
redts, is plain. For, in Ex. 1. as 1000 : 875 :: 20: 17 ;
that is, as the decimal denominator to the decimal nu¬
merator, fo the vulgar denominator to the vulgar nu¬
merator.
In Ex. 1. the full value of the decimal comes out in
parts, the decimal being quite exhaufted ; but in Ex. 2.
befides the parts, there is a decimal of a farthing, viz.
.336 f.
The decimal of a pound Sterling may be reduced to
value by infpedtion, in the following manner.
Double the figure in the place of primes for (hillings ;
and if the figure in the place of feconds be 5, or exceed
5, reckon 1 (hilling more ; and rejedting 5 in the fecond
place, the figures in the fecond and third places are fo
many farthings, abating 1 for every 25.
L. e. d. f.
Examp. i. .ji8 = 14 4 2
2. .759 =15 2 1
3. 894 = 17 10 3
In Example 1. the figure 7 doubled gives 14c. ; the
two following figures 18 are farthings, equal to 4d. 2 f.
In Example 2. the figure 7 doubled gives 14 s. and 5
in the place of feconds gives 1 (hilling more, in all 15s.;
and the other figure 9 is farthings, viz. 2 d 1 f.
In Example 3. the figure .8 in the place, of primes,
and 5 in the place of feconds, give 17s.; the remaining
figures 44, abating i, are farthings, viz. 10 d. 3 f.
When the figures in the fecond and third place to be
converted into farthings are 25, the anfwer, by infpec-
tion, comes out exadt, viz. 24 f. or 6 d. ; but in all
other cafes, the anfwer, by infpedtion, is too great, no
allowance or corredtion being made till the convertible
number
ARITHMETIC
401
Bumber amount to 25, and afford a deduftion of 1 far¬
thing complete. Hence,' by infpeflion, we have fre¬
quently! farthing more than by the common method;
but the two methods will agree, or give the fame anfwer,
if, from the figures to be turned into farthings, we fub-
tradt their 25th part, efteeming the remainder farthings
and decimal parts of a farthing.
Thus, .718!.= 14s. 4d. 2 f. by infpedlion ; but by
the common method, and by infpedtion corredted, the
anfwer comes out 1 farthing lefs, as follows.
Comvion method. Infpeftion corrected.
L. If 25 : 1 :: ,18 : .72.
.718 that is, 2y)i8.o(.72
20 175
s. 14.360
d. 4.32
4
f. 1.28
50 and 18
50 .72
(o) 17.28
d. /■
And 17.28 = 4 1.28
To conclude, inftead of dividing by 25, we may mul¬
tiply by ^04; and then the exadt value of any decimal
of a pound Sterling may be found as follows.
From the primes and feconds fet off the Ihillings ;
multiply the remainder by 4, fetting the produdl: two
places to the right; fubtradt the produdl; from the nrft
remainder ; and from the fecond remainder point off fo
many places to the right as there are figures in the firft
remainder. The number on the left of the point is far¬
things, and the figures on the right are a decimal of a
farthing.
Example 1.
x. d.f.
.718 l.= 14 4 1.28
72=18X4
Example 2.
x. d.f.
.7691 l.=i5 4 2.336
n. 191
764=191X4
2 Rem. 17.28 2 Rem. .18.336
Pros. V. To reduce a decimal to its primitive vul¬
gar fradtion.
Case I. When the given decimal is finite.
Rule. Divide both numerator and denominator of
the given decimal by their greateft common meafure;
the quot is the vulgar fradtion required.
Thus, .875=AVu = 1- For 875)1000(1
ill
Greateft common meafure 125)875(7
- 875
And 12 5 )T8^rs(-£. (o)
Case II. When the given decimal is a pure repeat¬
er, or a pure circulate.
Rule. Make the repeating figure, or the figures of
the circle, the numerator of the vulgar fradtion.; the de-
Yol. 1. No. 17. 3 t
nominator is 9 for the repeating figure, or 9 for every
figure of the circle ; and then, if occafion require, re¬
duce this fradtion to its loweft terms.
Thus, — and = = and ./==|-.
Again, .27, =£j-=-rV> and
Case III. When the given decimal is a mixt repeat¬
er, or a mixt circulate.
Rule. From the mixt repeater, or mixt circulate,
fubtradt the finite part, and the remainder is the nume¬
rator of the vulgar fradtion ; the denominator is 9 for
the repeating figure, or 9 for every figure of the circle,
with as many ciphers annexed as there are figures in the
finite part.
Thus, .02 = yV = -j^, and .16 = !§ = £, and .083'
O'o o* 0 o' t i*
The reafon of the rule may be fhewn thus : Efteem
the finite part of the laft example an integer, and then the
mixt number 3f will be equal to the given circu¬
late. Again, reduce this mixt number to an improper
fradtion, viz. multiply the integer 3 by the denominator
999999, and to the produdt add the numerator, as di-
redted in redudtion of vulgar fradtions.
Multiply the integer 3 into 999999
by the tnethod of multiplying any num- 3000000
ber by 9, 99, 999, &c. taught in mul- 3
tiplication of integers, and to the pro- 
dudt add the numerator, and the fum 2999997
fhall be the numerator of the improper 571428
fradtion, as in the margin..  
3571425 num.
Now it is evident that the fame nu¬
merator will be found, if, in the upper 3571428
line, inftead of the fix ciphers, you place 3 •
the figures of the circle, and from them 
fubtradt 3, the finite part. 3571425 num.
To the numerator thus found, the denominator is
999999; and fo the vulgar fradtion is • But
we efteemed 3 an integer; whereas, in fadt, it is i-ig-;
and fo our vulgar fradtion will be 100 times greater than
it ought to be : to corredt this error, we muft multiply
the denominator by 100, which is done by annexing two
ciphers to it; and the true fradtion comes ,out to be
'{iVwAVo'* as by tlie role*
Becaufe this rule is of great importance, and will of¬
ten occur in pradtice, we ftuill here fubjoin another ex¬
ample.
. Reduce .0414 to a vulgar fradtion.
.04
4J
Num. 375
_ = A*
Den. 9000
In this manner too may any mixt number, conTtfting
of an integer with a repeater or circulate, be reduced to
an improper vulgar fradtion ; but no ciphers arc to be an¬
nexed to the denominator for the figures of the integer;
5 I Ex, Re-
402 A R I T H
Ex. Reduce 3 .3- to an improper vulgar fraction.
8
Num. 75
— ¥ —8 t
Den. 9
Approximate decimals being imperfeft, cannot be ex-
Sftly reduced batk to the vulgar fradions from which they
lefulted. But if the approximate be completed by an¬
nexing to it a vulgar fraction, whereof the remainder of
the divifion is the numerator, and the divifor the de¬
nominator, you lhall have a mixt number* which yoii
may reduce to an improper vulgar fraction ; then td
the denominator annex as many ciphers as there are
figures in the approximate ; and this fraftion reduced
to its lowed terms, will be the primitive vulgar fradtion
required.
Frob. VI. To reduce unlike circles to others that
are limilar and conterminous.
Similar or like circles are fuch as confift of an equal
number of places.
Thus, .27, and .09, are fimilar circltr, as ctmfift-
ing of two places each. But .62, and .148, are unlike ;
the former confiding of two, and the latter of thred
places.
Conterminous circles are fuch as begin and end at the
fame didance from the decimal point.
Thus, .153846, and .384615, are conterminous ; be-
caufe they both begin at the place of primes, and have
an equal number of places. And .0,714285, and
.7,857142, are conterminous, becaufethey both begin at
the place of feconds, and have the fame number of places.
But .81, and .1,36, are not conterminous, the former
beginning at the place of primes, and the latter at the
place of feconds. Again, .63, and .481, are not con¬
terminous, becaufe they have not the fame number of
M £ T I C K.
RIjle. Set afide by a comma the left, as mib^
figures as there are places in the longed finite part, and
then prolong the feveral circles to as many places as will
make therri firtiilar.
Ex. To make .54,63, and .54,63, = .54,636363;
.9,! 48-, conterminous. .91148, = .91,481481,
Here, becaule .54, the
longed finite part, ccnfids of two places, fet afide .91,
in the other circulate! for a finite part, and then prti-
long both circles to fix places* which renders theiVi fimilah
III. Additihk of Decimalt.
Rule I. Place the given decimals fo that the points
may Hand diredly under each other, and confequently
tenths under tenths, hundredths under hundredths fee, ;
then, if the given decimals be all finite or approximate,
add them as integers, infertingthe decimal point direClly
under the column of points. The figures on the left of
the point are integers, and thofe on the right are a deci¬
mal of the integer, confiding of as many places as there
are figures in the longed of the given decimals.
The operation is the fame here as in Ex.
addition of vulgar fractions; for a cipher
bn the right of a decimal does not
change its value: If, therefore, ciphers
be annexed, fo as to give every decimal
the ftme number df places, as is done in
the margin, they will by this means be
reduced to a common denominator, 3.495 jJaTsW
viz. 1000.
Note, If the decimals to be added are of different de¬
nominations, fifd reduce them to one denomination, and
then add. The reafon is, becaufe like things only can
be added or fubtrafted.
Ex. What is the fum of .y2^1. and .625 s. ?
Here you may either reduce the decimal of a fiiilling
places ; for circles cannot be conterminous unlefs they t0 th^t of a pound, or you may reduce the decimal of
be at the fame time fimilar.
Unlike circles are reduced to fimilar ones by the fol¬
lowing
Rule. Find the lead multiple of the numbers de¬
noting the number of places in the feVeral given circles,
and extend each of the given circles to as many places as
there are units in the lead multiple.
Thus, to reduce the unlike circles
.63, = .6363635 .63, and .148, to fimilar ones, ex-
.148, = .148148, tend, both circles to fix places, be¬
caufe 6 is the leaft multiple of 2 and
3, the number of places in the given circles.
In a circle any one of the circulating figures may be The anfwer here
made the firft of the circle. Thus, 7.592, may be ex- is the fame as be-
preffed thus, 7.5,925,; or thus, 7-59:259, ; and that. fore. s
without changing its value : confequently a pure circulate
may put on the form of & mixt circulate, if one or more
figures on the left be fet afide for the finite part; thus,
...72,=.7,27, where .7, is the finite part.
That the value is not changed may. be thus demon-?
ftrated.
•7>27> =7T3' = -5-5'— -72*
Hence two or more given circles may be made canter*
miaous, by the following
pound to that of a (hilling.
Firft reduce the decimal of a (hilling to that of a pound,
by redu&ion-afcending, viz. divide by 20, as follows.
20).6250o(.03125
•725_
Sum .75625 = 15 It
Secondly, reduce the decimal of a pound to that of &■
(hilling, by redudioh-defeending; that is, multiply by
20, as follows.
.725 I-
s. 15,125 fura.
1.500
4
f. 2 -0
A R I T H
M
Approximates.
If the decimals to be added run on to a great many
places, it will be fufficient in molt cafes to ufe only four
or five places, and obierve to increafe the figure at v/hich
you break off by art unit, if the rejeded figure on tire
right exceed 5. And in adding fucli approximates, o-
mit the right-hand figure of the fum, as uncertain, but
take in the carriage. Follows an example at large, and
the fame contraded.
Ex. at large*
12.2352946
8.15789325
7.086968435
6.32143482
A-1'5
contrafled.
12.23529 +
8.15789 +
7.08696 —
6.32143 +
A-1S
38.55159110$ 38.5515 certain.
Rule II. When all or any of the given decimals are
repeaters, give every repeater the fame number of placeS|
and one place more than ihe longed finite; and for every
nine in the right-hand column carry 1. or to its fum add
1 for every nine,, and then carry at ten.
Exatnp. 7484= 748^3
^53t- 653 ^6
84-5-— 84./i
2 5x- 25%
155?t-'557-66
In this example the fum of the right-hand column is
24, which contains 9 twtee5 and 6 over 5 fo fet down 6:
and carry 2 : Or to the Turn 24 add 2, for the two hines,
which makes 26; fo ,fet.down 6 and carry 2. Proceed
with the reft as in integers.
The fums, differences, and products, of interminate
decimals^ are always irterminate, unlefs they end in a
cipher,
A repeating-digit is the numerator of a vulgar frac--
tton, whofe denominator is 9; and hence, in adding a
column of repeating digits, evety 9 of the fum is or
an unit, to be carried; and what is over a juft number
Of nines is fo many ninth-parts.-
Or, if to the fum of a column of repeating digits, 1
for every 9 contained in it be added, we then carry 1 for
etfery ten; but what is over A juft number of tens will ,
ftill continue to be ninth-parts.
If in any example the repeating figures happen all.
to be reiterated* the carriage from the right-hand co¬
lumn adjufts the column on the left, or makes every ten
of them equal to an unit of the next fuperior column,
4jc. Thus* if we imagine a column of the repeating fi¬
gures reiterated on the right of any example, the car¬
riage from it would adjaft the right-hand column of the
example.
Rule HI. When all or any of the given decimals
are circulates, make all the circles conterminous, find the
Wilber of tens to be carried from the left-hand column
STICK. 403
iof the circles, add this carriage to the right hand column,
and proceed as in addition of integers.
If repeaters be mixed with the circulates, give the
repeaters the form of circulates, by extending the re¬
peating figures till they become conterminous with the
other circles.
If finite decimals are joined with the circulates, ex¬
tend the finite parts of all the circulates to as many places
as there are figures in the longeft finite.
Examp. 4 = .428571, = .428571,
4 =.857142,= .857142,
tt = .45» — *454545*
44 =,37°, = .370370,
2.110630
In order to find the carriage from the left-hand co¬
lumn of the circles, add the column next to it on the
right, faying, 7 + 5 + 5+ 2 = 19; from which carry 1,
and fay, 1 + 3+ 4 + 8+ 4 = 20; from which carry
2, and go on to add the right-hand column of the
circle, faying,, the carriage 2 + 5 + 2 + 1 =10 ; fo fet
down o, and carry 1, and proceed with the reft as in
integers.
The. adding the carriage from thie left-hand column of
the circles-to the column on the right hand, arifes front
the flux of numbers; for as the circles repeat infinitely,
if we fuppole a new fett of the fame circles to be repeat¬
ed upon the right of our examples, it is plain, that in
adding them the carriage from the left-hand column of
the new fett would naturally fall into the right-hand co¬
lumn of our example.
The operation here is the fame as in addition of vulgar
fradtions ; for every circlets the numerator of ft vulgar
fraction, whofe common denominator is 999999 ; and
if the circles or numerators be added, without minding
any carriage from the left-hand column, the lum will be
2110628.
And 999999)2110628(245-14+!
1999998
110630
But, by pointing off from the fum of the circles fix:
figures towards the right, we divide by .1000000, in-
ftead of dividing by 999999 ; which, gives indeed the
fame quot, but makes the. remainder too fmall..
Now, that the carriage-figure from the left-hand co¬
lumn of the circles* is the integral .part of the quot, and
at the fame time the difference between the true and
falfe remainder, is evident; for the quotient-figure 2,
multiplied into the two divifors . ioocooo:and 999999,
gives two produdls, whofe difference is 2; and confe-
quently, if the greateft produtf, viz. 2 X1000000=
2000000, be fubtra&ed from the dividend, the refuit
will want 2 of the true remainder. To prevent fuch er¬
rors, and to put the work on a fare footing, find the
carriage from the left-hand column of the circles, add
this carriage to the right-hand column, divide the fum
by 1000000, and you will have a true quot, and a true
remainder. The learner may lock back to divifion of
integers, ,
<4^4
A R I T H M E T I C K.
integers, where the method of dividing by 9,99,999, 6c.
is explained.
.428571, Hence it follows, that if we add the cir-
.857142, cles as they (land, without minding any car-
.45454.5; riage from the left, and to the fum add the
.370379, excrefcent figure on the left of the decimal
 point, we (hall have the full fum of the
2.110628 circles, both as to the integral and frac-
2 tional part, as in the margin.
2.110639*
Pure repeaters, being the1 numerators of vulgar frac¬
tions, whofe denominator is 9 as often taken as the digit
is repeated, may be added in the fame, manner as circles.
But in examples clear of circulates, the method prefcri-
bed in Cafe II. is preferable.
.(Z666, In adding circles and pure re-
;6666, peaters by the method now ex-
.6666, plained, it will fometimes happen
■   that the fraflional part of ihe
1.9999, fum be a feries of nines,
I as in the margin : And in this
—— cafe, the numerator of the frac-
2.0000 tion being the fame with the de¬
nominator, its value will be uni¬
ty; ^nd accordingly 1 mull be
added to the integral part. But in adding pure repeaters
by the method in Cafe II. this cannot happen.
By way of proof, we fhall here add all the vulgar
fradtions in Examp. I. and reduce their fum to a mixt
number, continuing the divifion to a decimal.
.857142,
-.574428,
•857M2.
.7M285.'
2.999999,
3.000000
4 + t 4- A-tt == tVYVt 4* '4frf 4* Tnrrrr ‘4"
WrtY ^ Tj-fff.
I4553)3°7i6(2.i 10630,
29106
* 16100
*4553
15470
M553
91700
87318
Here the dividual1 being the 43820
fame with the fecond, a new 43659
circle begins.  
*16100
IV. Suhtraftlon of Decimals.
Rule I. Place the minor under the major, fo that
that the points may be in one column; and then, if the
given decimals be finite or approximate, work as in fub-
tradtion of integers.
If the major and minor have not the fame number of
places, imagine the void places to be filled up with ci¬
phers.
Example I.
L. s. d. L.
From 48 10 6 =48.525
Sub. 18 12 8^=18.634375
Rem. 29 17 9| = 2i9.890625
Example II.
c. 4. lb. C.
From 54 2 21 = 54.6875
Sub. 36 3 14 = 36.875
Rem. 17 3 17 = 17.8125
Approximates.
In fubtradling approximates, negledt the right-hand fi¬
gure of the remainder, as uncertain; but an unit bor¬
rowed on the right muft be repaid, as in the two exam¬
ples following.
Ex. t. Ex. 2.
From 783.0625 From 549.4643
Sub. 495.28571 + Sub. 78.0875
Rem. 287.7767 certain. Rem. 471.376 certain.
Rule II. If one of the given decimals is a repeater,
and the other a finite decimal, give the repeater one place
more than the finite decimal, and in fubtradling borrow
9 on the right hand.
But if both major and minor repeat, give them an e-
qual number of places, and then fubtradt as above.
Ex. 1.
From .7i4583'3
Sub. .634375
£x. 2. Ex. 3.
.525 .9989583'
.^333 .0291666
Rem. .0802083 .19191 .96979191
In Ex. 1. and 2. you give the repeater one place more
than the finite decimal, and by this means you obtain the
repeating figure of the remainder. But in Ex. 3. you
give the turn repeaters an equal number of places.
In Ex. 2. and 3. you borrow 9 on the right hand.
Rule III. If both the given decimals be circulates,
make the circles conterminous, and work as in integers;
only if, in the left-hand column of the circles, you
forefee, that, in fubtradting the figure of the minor from
that of the major, one muft be borrowed, in tiiis cafe add
1 to the right-hand figure of the minor, and then fub-
tradh
If one of the given decimals be a circulate, and the
other a repeater, give the repeater the form of a conter¬
minous circulate, and then fubtradt as above.
If one of the given decimals be a circulate, and the
other a finite decimal, extend the finite part of the cir¬
culate to as many places as there are figures in the finite
decimal, and then fubtradt.
Examp. I. From ^=.6,428571, =.64,28571/!,
Sub. ■sy=.4 7,857142,=.17,857142,
Rem. .46,428571,
In this example, becaufe, in the left-hand column of
the
A R I T H M
‘the circles, 8 cannot be fubtrafted from 2 without bor¬
rowing ; therefore add i to the right-hand figure of the
minor, and fay, 1+2=3, and 3 from 4, and 1 remains.
The reafon is obvious : for, fuppofing the circles reitera¬
ted on the right of the example, it would be, 8 from 2
you cannot, but 8 from 12 and 4 remains; 1 borrowed,
and 2, make 3,
Example II.
From 4-|:=:-9>2857i4> = .9,285714,
Sub. 4=.^ =.<£,666666,
E T I C K» 40$
General Rule.
Give fo many decimal places to the product, on the
right, as are in both fa<ftors; and if the produd-has
not fo many figures, fupply that defed by prefixing ci¬
phers.
We now proceed to multiplication.
Rule I If both fadors are finite or approximate,
work exadly as in multiplication of integers.
£x. 1. Ex. 2.
.785 .125
• 75 .2?
Rem. .2,619047,
In the above example the repeaters are given in the
form of conterminous circulates.
3925 625
5495 250
Example III.
From ^=.384615, = .384,615384,
Sub. 4 =.125 =.125
Rem. .259,615384,
In the lafl: example the finite part of the circulate is ex¬
tended to as many places as there are figures in the fi¬
nite decimal, by which means like things come to be
fubtraded, and you obtain the exad circle of the re¬
mainder.
V. Multiplication of Decimals.
In multiplication and divifion there may happen nine
varieties, arifing from the different nature of the num¬
bers that may occur in the operation; and thefe are of
three forts, viz. integers, mixt numbers, and pure de¬
cimals.
Now, fince the multiplier or divifor may be of three
kinds, and the multiplicand or dividend of as many,
there muft of confequence be nine varieties; which are
thefe following.
C an integer,
An integer may multiply of divide -ja mixt number,
(_a pure decimal,
('an integer,
A mixt number may multiply or divide <a mixt number,
(_a pure decimal,
C an integer,
A pure decimal may multiply or divide < a mixt number,
C.a pure decimal,
Of thefe varieties, the firft belongs properly to vulgar
arithmetic, the other eight occur in decimal operations.
But in multiplication and divifion of decimals, there
will occur other nine varieties, arifing likewife from the
nature of the numbers; which may either be finite, re¬
peating, or circulating.
And fince the multiplier or divifor may be of three
forts, and the multiplicand or dividend of as many, there
mull of courfe be nine varieties; and thefe are fo ob¬
vious, that it would be lofing time here to enumerate
them.
Before entering on multiplication, we fhall lay down
- a rule for pointing the prodiidt, which is of a general na¬
ture, and extends to decimals of -every fort, whether fi¬
nite, repeating, or circulating ; and is as follows.
Yol. I. Numb. 17. 3 t
.58875 .03125
In Ex. 2. the product not affording fo many decifnal
places as are in the multiplicand and multiplier,, the defeft
is fupplied by prefixing ciphers.
The reafon of giving as many decimal places to the
produtft as are in both fadors, appears by confidering
that the operation is the fame here as in multiplication of
vulgar fradions. Thus, .785 X -75 =tWo Xt¥u ^
trsVaVa —1 • 58875. _
To multiply by 10, 100, 100, <bc. move the decimal
point fo many places toward the right hand as there are
ciphers in the multiplier.
Thus : And thus :
.4375X10 =4.375 6.875X10 =68.75
•4375 X 100 := 43-75 6.875X100 = 687.5
Approximates.
In multiplying approximates, the certain places of the
produd may be determined by one or other of the two
rules following, viz.
1. If both fadors are approximates, the uncertain
places of the produd will be one more than the number
of places in the longeft fador.
2. If one of the fadorS be finite, and the other ap¬
proximate, the uncertain places of the -produd Will b<?
one more than the number of places in the 'finite fador.
Ex. 1. . Ex. 2.
245.118— .210526+
.3529+ 2.875
2206062
490236
1225590
735354
1052630
1473682
1684208
421052
86.5021422 .605262250
In Ex. 1. the integral part of the produd, a/er. 86,
is certain, and all the decimal places on the right are
uncertain. In Ex. 2. only four places on the left, viz.
.'6052, are certain, and all the other places uncertain.
The Yeafon of Rule i .is plain. For if in Ex. 1. we
make the longeft fador the multiplier, and the total
produd will be the fame either way, it is obvious, that
in this -cafe we fhall have fix particular produds, in each,
of- which the right-hand figure will be uncertain, and
5 K confequently
4o6 A R I T H M
confequently we (liall have fix uncertain places in the to¬
tal produdt toward the right, and alfo one uncertain place
more on account of the uncertain carriage from the co¬
lumn in which the right-hand figure of the lait particular
produft (lands.
The reafon of Rule 2. is alfo obvious. For in Ex. 2.
by making the finite fador the multiplier, we have four
particular prodwSls, in each of which the right-hand fi¬
gure is uncertain; and fo we have four uncertain places
in the total produft, and one uncertain place more arifing
from the uncertain carriage.
The carriage in fome cafes may affeft feveral columns
on the left, and thereby render fo many more figures un¬
certain ,
The fureft way therefore to determine the certain
places in the produdf of approximates, is by a fecond
operation, giving the approximates contrary figns; for
then, fo far as the two products agree, the figures are
certain. The fecond operations of the two former ex¬
amples follow.
Ex. z. Ex. 2.
245.117+ .210527—
•353 2<875
735351 1052635
1225585 M73689
735351 1684216
  421054
86.526301  —
.605265 125
In Ex. 1. 86; 5 is certain, and all the other figures
uncertain. In Ex. 2. .60526 are the only certain places.
Eecanfe the multiplication of decimals that confift of
many places, proves, in the way hitherto pra&ifed, a te¬
dious operation, we (hall here explain a method where¬
by decimals of this fort, whether finite or approximate,
may be multiplied expeditioufly, and at the fame time
have the decimal places in the produdt limited to any
number propofed. This may be effeifkd by the ful-
Rule. Under the multiplicand place the multiplier
inverted, fo that its units place may (land under that
place of the multiplicand to which you propofe to limit
the produtf ; then multiply the right-hand figure of the
multiplier into that figure of the multiplicand which (lands
direttly over it, taking in the carriage from the right,
and go on to multiply it into- all the other figures on the
kft. proceed in like manner with every other figure of
the multiplier, placing the right-hand figures of all the
particular products dire&ly under other. The total pro-
du'ft will be approximate, and the right-hand figure un¬
certain.
To make this rule more eafily underftood, the reader
may look back to the multiplication, of integers; where
it was obferved, that inftead of beginning with the right-
hand figure of the multiplier, we may begin with the
left, and dill have a juft producl, provided tire right-
hand figure of every particular produft be placed di-
retfly under the multiplying figure. Now, the working
an example, both in this manner, and alfo by the rule,.
and comparing the. fteps and refults. of the two opera-*
E T I C K.
tions, will throw a light upon the matter, and unfold the
reafon of the rule. Which take as follows.
Multiply 18.634375 into 9.875, and limit the produft
to four decimal places.
By the rule. By the other method.
18.634375 18.634375
578.9 A9‘875
1677093
149075
13044
931
1677093I75
149075I000
13044I0625
93117t875
184.0143+ 184.0144I53125
B
In working by this rule, you invert the multiplier, and
place 9, the units figure, under 3, the fourth place of
decimals, becaufe the produft is limited to four deci¬
mal places; then multiply, faying, 9 X 3 = 27, and 6
carried from the right makes 33, fee. In multiplying
by 8, fay, 8 X 4 = 32, and 3 of carriage makes 35 ; fo
fet 5 under 3 ; and proceed in like manner to multiply
the figures on the left. The right-hand figure of the
produft is defe&ive, as wanting the carriage from the
columns cut off on the right by the line A B. The fi¬
gures expreffing the (um of the columns fo cut off, are
fo many uncertain places of the produft, when the fac¬
tors are approximate, and on that account to be rejeft-
ed as ufelefs. The figures, moreover, on the right of
the line A B, (how how far the operation is contrafted,
or how much labour is laved in working by the rule.
If there be no units in the multiplier, in this cafe fet
the right-hand figure of the inverted multiplier under
that figure of the multiplicand, below which it would
have flood bad there been units.
Ex. Multiply .825 by .825, limiting the produft to
three decimal places.
.By the rule. The common way at large.
.825 .825
528. .825
660 4!i25
16 16I50
4 66o|o
.680+ .68o|625
The decimal places of the Eftors may either he re¬
tained at full length, or turned into approximates before
you begin to multiply.
Ex. Multiply 25.849013625 by 42 97235, limiting
the produft to two decimal places.
25.849013625
r3279-24
103396
5169
2326
180
5
Wt
1110.76+
A R I
H M E T I; C
407
We (hall next t!!rn the decimals of the former exam¬
ple into approximates, and then the operation will be as
follows.
By the rule.
25.85 
+79-24
Common way at large.
25.85-
42.97+
103400
5170
2326
180
180
2336
5170
10340
Prod. 1110.76-I-
n 10.77
45
It remains to be obferved, that the want of carriage
from the right hand may fometimes affed more columns
on the left than one, and thereby occafion more uncertain
figures in the produft than that on the right hand. The
bell fecurity on this head is, never to limit the product
to fewer than four or. five decimal places-.
To conclude, when decimals to be multiplied are
long, you may frequently perform the operation more
ealily in vulgar frattions, and then reduce the product to
a decimal.
plicand circulate, to the produd: of the right-hand figure
of the circle add the carriage from the left, then proceed
as in multiplication of integers ; but before you add the
particular produ&s, make them conterminous, and then
add as in addition of circulates.
The product commonly circulates; and then its circle
is fimilar to the circle of the multiplicand, as in Ex. 1.
and 2.; but the product fometimes repeats, as in Ex. 5.;
or it may turn out finite, as in Ex. 6.
Here it is obvious, that in multiplying .481 Ex 1.
by 7, the carriage from the left would be 3 ; .481,
fo fay, 7X1 = 7, and 3 of carriage, make 10, 7,
ire. The produdt circulates, and its circle 
.370, is fimilar to .481, the circle of the mul- 3-370.
tiplicand.
Ex. 2.
7.518,
•5
Ex 3.
7-5i8.
•05.
Ex. 4.
7-5‘8.
.005
In the above three examples the produ&s are mixt
circulates, the three figures on the right being the circle,
and the figures on the.left the finite parts.
Rule II. If the multiplier be finite, and the multi¬
plicand repeat, in multiplying carry at 9 on the right Rule IV. If the multiplier be interminate, reduce
hand; and before you add, prolong the repetends of the t0 a vulgar fraflion, as diredfed in redudtion of deci-
particular produtfs, till their right-hand figures Hand di- nrals, Prob. V.; then multiply the given multiplicand by
redtly under one another ; and in adding, carry at 9 on the numerator, (workin.-as in integers, if the multipli-
tbe right hand: cand be finite ; or as diredled in Rule 2. if it repeat; or
The produdl repeats, as in Ex. 1. i. ; or. turns; as preferibed in Rule 3. if it circulate) ; and divide the
• ~ ' produdl by the denominator.
Here there are fix cafes ; for the multiplier may repeat
or circulate, and may multiply .a finite, a repeating, or
out finite.
Ex. 1.
•a
4
1 Ex. 6.
Ex. 2.
Ex. 5.
4.o<3 -
Ex. 4.
354-2P
circulating multiplicand.
Case I. When a repeating multiplier multiplies a fi.4
28.3413: nJte multiplicand.
Examp. Multiply 638.25 by .4=^
638.25
4
Siar
20333
21.140
791.30
Note, If the multiplier has ciphers on the right, in*
ftead of annexing ciphers to the produdt, reiterate its
right-hand figure fo many times as there are ciphers.
Ex. 1. Ex. 7.
79-0 874.3-
50 900
3983.3 786900.0
Rule III. If the multiplier be finite, and the multi-
9)2553.00(283,0 produdl fppghti
18 • '
75
72
33
27
60
54
*6
Case II. When both fadtors repeat.
Exams,-
pg A R I T H M
Examp. Multiply 6.83-by ./=£
6.83'
7
9)47-8a(5-3>M8> prod.
45 ••
28
27
In dividing by 9, after the
dividend is exhaufted, conti¬
nue the divifion by annexing
to the remainders the repeat¬
ing figure of the dividend;
andthequotor product fought
comes out a mixt circulate.
* 13
9
43
36
73
72
Case III. When a repeating multiplier multiplies a
circulating multiplicand.
Examp. Multiply 24.36, by .4 = 4
In multiplying by 4, take
24^6, rn the carriage from the left
4 of the circle; and in dividing
   by 9, continue the divifion by
q')Q7.4?,(10.82, prod, annexing to the remainders
9 the circulating figures of the
    dividend.
* 74
72
25
18
E T I C K.
Examp. Multiply 8.02083 by .^2,—^}
8.02083
72
16041661
56145833
99)577.50000(5.83
491- *
825
792
33°
297
*33
Case VI. When both fa&ors circulate.
Examp. Multiply .7x4285, by .36,=4|-
.714285.
36
4,285714,
21,428571,
99)25,714285,7
257142,8
2571.4
25.7
Prod. .25,974025, = .259740.25
The circle of the firft produft is always fimilar to that
of the multiplicand, and in the above example confifts
of fix places; but to fecure the carriage from right to
left, and thereby complete the circle of the quot or to¬
tal produft, transfer 7, the left-hand figure of the circle
of the firft produft, to the right, and fill up the places
under it with the figures that come in courfe, and from
the fum of thefe figures on the right carry 2, which
completes the circle of the total produft.
Case IV. When a circulate multiplies a finite mul¬
tiplicand.
Examp. Multiply 825 by .36, =4|
825
36
4950
2475
99)29700(300 prodaft
297
Case V. When a circulate multiplies a repeating
multiplicand.
VI. Divijion of Decimals.
Before we enter on divifion, it will be proper toob-
ferve, that there are two rules for pointing the quot,
both which are general in their nature, and extend to
decimals of every fort, whether terminate or intermi-
nate ; but unwilling to perplex the learner with too ma¬
ny things at once, we Ihall at prefent lay down only one,
of thefe rules; and afterwards, when the rule now to be
afligned appears to be fufficiently exemplified, Ihall then
bring the other rule upon the field.
General Rule.
The decimal places in the divifor and quot together
muft always be equal in number to thofe of the divi¬
dend.
The
A R I T H
The five following practical directions will make the
application of the general rule eafy.
1. When the divifor and dividend have an equal num¬
ber of decimal places, the quot comes out an integer ; as
in Ex. 2.
2. When the decimal places of the dividend are more
than thofe of the divifor, the number of decimal places
in the quot muft be equal to the excefs ; as in Ex. i .
4. and 8.
3. When the decimal places of the divifor are more
than thofe of the dividend, annex ciphers to the dividend,
fo as to make them equal, and the quot, by direction 1.
will be integers; as in Ex. 3. 5. and 7.
4. When, after divifion is finilhed, the quot has not
fo many figures, as, by the general rule, it ought to
have decimal places, fupply that defeCt by prefixing ci¬
phers; as in Ex. 6.
5. If, after the dividend is exhaufted, there be a re¬
mainder, annex a cipher, or ciphers, to the remainder,
and continue the divifion till o remain, or till the quot
repeat or circulate, or till you think proper to limit it;
as in Ex. 9. 10. XI. and 12.
We now proceed to divifion.
Rule I. If the divifor and dividend are both finite
or approximate, work exactly as in divifion of integers.
•75)-58875(-785
525 •*
2.5)182.5(73
175
637 75
600 75
375
375
In Ex. 1. A decimal divides a decimal; and becaufe
the dividend has five decimal places, and the divifor on¬
ly two, give three decimal places to the quot, accord¬
ing to Direction 2.
In Ex. 2. A mixt number divides a mixt number,
and the divifor and dividend having an equal number of
decimal places, the quot comes out an integer, accord¬
ing to Direction 1.
The reafon of the rule for pointing; the quot is ob¬
vious ; for multiplication gives as many decimal places
to the product as are in both factors; but the dividend is
the produCt of the divifor and quot, and fo has as many
decimal places as are in both ; confequently the decimal
places in the divifor and quot together mult be equal in
number to thofe of the dividend.
Ex. 3.
.85)476(
.85)476.00(560
425 ••
510
510
Ex. 4.
7).875(.i25
7' ■
17
M
35
35
In Ex. 3. A decimal divides an integer ; and the di¬
vidend having no decimal place, annex two ciphers, be-
Vol. I. No. 18. 3
M E T I C K. 409
caufe there are two decimal places in the divifor, and the
quot comes out an integer, according to Direction 3.
In Ex. 4. An integer divides a decimal; and becaufe
the dividend has three decimal places, and the divifor
none, give the quot three, by Direction 2.
Ex. 5.
•375)i2.75(
.375)12.750(34
1125
1500
1500
Ex. ■6.
2.5).22875(.09i5
225
37
25
125
125
In Ex. 5. A decimal divides a mixt number; and the
divifor having three decimal places, and the dividend but
two, fupply that defeCt by annexing a cipher, and the
quot comes out an integer, by Direction 3.
In Ex. 6. A mixt number divides a decimal; and be¬
caufe the dividend has four decimal places more than
the divifor, and the quot, after the divfion is finifhed,
has only three .figures, fupply this defeCt by prefixing a
cipher to it, according to Direction 4.
Ex. 7.
3-75)i8o(
3.75)180.00(48
1500 *
3000
Ex. 8.
38)243.2(6.4
228 *
152
152
In Ex. 7. A mixt number divides an integer; and the
dividend having no decimal places, fupply that defeCl by
annexing two ciphers, the number of decimal places in
the divifor, and the quot is an integer, by Direction 3.
In Ex. 8. An integer divides a mixt number; and
the divifor having no decimal place, and the dividend
only one, give one to the quot, according to Direc¬
tion 2.
Ex. 9.
.8)29(36.25
24
50
48
Ex. 10.
.ox8).oo24(.i3’
18
60
54
20 *6
16
40
40
In Ex. 9. A decimal divides an integer; and after
the dividend is exhaufted, annex a cipher to the remain¬
der, and continue the divifion till o remain, according
to Direction 5.
In Ex. 10. A decimal divides a decimal ; and after
the dividend is exhaufted, annex a cipher to the re¬
mainder, and continue the divifion till you find the quot
repeats.
f 5 L Ex.
4IQ
Ex. ii.
n)8(
ii)8.o(.72
77
30
A R I
Ex. 12.
3.25)76.75(23.615+
650
T H M
E T I C
Far. 3.
35)32.o9s(.9i7
315 • '
59
35
245
245
35)-32O9s(.o09i7
315
K.
Far. 4.
3 5)3-2095 (.0917
3>5 •*
59
35
245
255
Far. 6.
3 5).03 2095 (.000917
315"
59
35
59
35
In Ex. 1 r. An integer divides an integer ; and the
dividend being lefs than the divifor, annex a cipher to it;
again, after the dividend is exhaufted, annex a cipher
to the remainder, and continue the divifion till you find
the quot circulates.
In Ex. 12. A mixt number divides a mixt number:
and after the dividend is exhaufted, by annexing ciphers
to the remainder, continue the divifion till the quot has
three decimal places; and as there is ftill a remainder, it
might be carried further ; but three decimal places being
in moll cafes fufficiently accurate, here you may limit it;
fo the quot is approximate.
In divifion of decimals, the place of the firft figure of
the quot may likewife be known from the firft dividual,
much after the fame manner as in divifion of integers,
fey the following
II. General Rule.
The place of the firft figure of the quot is the fame
tvith the place of that figure in the dividend which ftands
over the units of the firft produd.
Thus, in the example of integers in 35)32095(917
the margin, the figure o, that ftands o- 315
ver 5, the units of the produd of  
9X35, is in the place of hundreds ; 59
and therefore 9, the firft figure of the 35
quot, is likewife hundreds; andfo the .   
quot is 917 integers. 245
245
To illuftrate the rule, we fhall give decimal places to
the dividend of the above example ; and thereby exhibit
the varieties that will occur in pointing the quot.
245 .
245
245
245
In all the above varieties, the figure o in the dividend
ftands over the units of the firft produd: and in Var. 1.
the figure o is in the place of tens,^ and accordingly 9,
the firft figure of the quot, is tens; in Var. 2. the figure
o is in the place of units, and fo 9 is units ; in Var. 3.
the figure o is in the place of primes, and fo 9 is
primes, &c.
Here obferve that 9, the firft fignificant figure of the
quot, in all the above varieties, as well as in the varie¬
ties that follow, muft always be confidered, in multi¬
plying the divifor, as an integer ; and, in pointing the
firft prodhd, no decimal place is to be allowed for it.
We lhall now keep the dividend an integer, and give
decimal places to the divifor.
Far. 1.
3.5)32095(9170
3I-5,‘
59
35
245
245
Far. 3.
,035) 32095(917000
Far. 2.
•35)32O95(9i70°
3-i5’"
59
35
245
245
Far. 4.
.0035) 32095(9170000
59
35
245
245
59
35
245
245
0.000 0.0000
InVar. 1. fay, 9X3.5=31.5; and the unit 1 Hand¬
ing under the place of thoufands, the figure 9 is alfo
thoufands ; and as o at 1 aft remains, annex a cipher for
the decimal ,5 in the divifor ; then dividing, you get o.
to the quot; and hecaufe 9 ftands in the place of thou¬
fands, the quot is wholly integers.
In
ARITHMETIC K. 411
' In Var. 2. the unit 3 (lands under the place of ten-
thoufands, and fo 9 is ten-thoufands; and to the re¬
mainder o annex .00, for the two decimal places in
the divifor; then dividing, you get 00 to the quot; and
becaufe 9 (lands in the place of ten-thoufands, the quot
continues to be wholly integers. The procefs is the fame
in Var. 3. and 4.
Laflly, we (hall allow decimal places to both dividend
and divifor.
Var. 1.
3.5)320.95(91.7
3I-5*- .
Var. 2.
3.5)32.095(9.17
3I>5 ’ '
59
35
245
245
Var. 3.
*35)*32005(-9I7
3.15"
59
35
245
245
Var. 4.
3-5)-32095(.os>i7
31-5' ’
59 59
35 3k
245 245
245 243
In Var. 1. the units of the firft product (land under
tends of the dividend; and fo 9, the firft figure of the
quot, is tecs. In Var. 2. the units of the firfl product
/land under units of the dividend, and fo 9 is units In
Var. 3. the units of the firft produd (land under primes,
and fo 9 is primes,
To divide by 10, 100, 1000, 6r. is to move the de¬
cimal point one place toward the left for every cipher ia
the divifor.
Thus,
io)768( 76 S’
joo:76£( 7.68
jooo)7*68( .768
10000)768 (.0768
And Thus,
■10)17.28/ 1.728
ioo)i7.,28l .1728
1000)17.28( .01728
10000) 17- 2 8( .0017 2 3
Approximates.
In dividing approximates, the certain places of the:
tjuot may be determined by the following
Role. Place the divifor under the firft dividual,
and the number of certain figures in the. quot (hall be
one lefs than the number of places from the left of the
divifor to the firft -[-or —, whether in the divifor or in
the dividend.
Ex. 1. Ex. 2.
Dividend 1110.79286078— Dividend 1110.7929 
Divifor 42.9723-f- Divifor 25.8490136-I-
Gertain places five, where-, Certain places fix, where¬
of three are decimals. of four are decimals.
But here it is to be .obferved, that the uncertain car-.
riage may, in feme cafes, effect feveral columns on the
left, and thereby render more figures of the quot uncer¬
tain than the rule preferibes. The fureft way, there¬
fore, is, to make two operations with contrary figns,
and then the figures in which the two quots agree are
certain.
In order to make the reafon of the rule appear, it will
be neceffary to work an example.
Example.
42.9723+)ino.79
85944
25134
21486
28607S—(25.849
6 • • • *
68
15
3648
3437
210
171
536
784
7520
8892
Here we (lop, no more places being certain. The.
reafon is obvious; for the right-hand figure of the firft
produfr, viz. 6, is uncertain; and confequently ail the
figures under it, on the right of the line A B, will be
fo 509; that is, the lad remainder and new dividual are
uncertain, and of courfe the. figure that would go next
to the quot.
From this example it appears, that all the figures on
the right of the line A B are uncertain and dilefs; if
therefore a way of •working, without writing down thefe
ufeltfs figures, can be found, we (hall then have a me¬
thod of dividing long decimals, .whether finite or approxi¬
mate, fo as to contract jhe operation, and limit the pro¬
duct to any number of decimal places propofed. And
this may be efFe&ed by obferving the following
Rule. Write the product of the firft quotient-figure
under the dividend ; and from the fituation of the units
place, confider how many figures of the dividend mull
be retained to give the quot the number of decimal
places intended; cutoff the, other figures on the right,
and alfo the figures correfponding to them on the right
of the divifor; then fubtraff ; efteem this and every fol¬
lowing remainder a new dividual; and for each new di¬
vidual drop a figure on the right of the divifor-, but in
multiplying the quotient-figures into the divifor, take in
the carriage from the right hand; as in the following
examples.
Ex. I. Divide 95-43275.6463275 by 3.4637528;
and limit the quox to four decimal places.
Coa-traffed
412 A R I T H
Contrafted by the rule.
3 •46375128)95*43 2 7! 56463 2 75 (2 7:-S Si 3
..... 6.92750I56
261577
242462
1911?
17318
1797 '
I73I
66
34
32
27
M E. T I C K.
In working the fame example at large, the line A B
/hows how far the operation is contracted, and how much
labour is faved.
But here obferve, that by the rule for approximates
the certain places of the quot are no more than five,
v/z. 27.551. And therefore, in all operations of this
kind, care ftiould be taken to limit the quot to fo many
places certain ; as is done in the following example.
Examp. II. Divide87.0763264525 by9.365407024;
limiting the quot to four decimal places certain.
9*3654°l7°24)87.07632|64525'(9.2976
  84.28866)3216
278766
187308
91458
84288
In the above example the units of the firfl product
Handing under the place of tens, the firft figure of the
quot is tens; and hence it is eafy to forefee, that fix
figures of the dividend retained will give four decimal
places to the quot; and accordingly cut off all the o-
ther figures on the right of the dividend ; cut oflt like-
wife from the divifor two figures that correfpond to
them.
At every new dividual, drop or omit a figure on the
right of the divifor, and mark the figure fo dropped by
fetting a point under it; and in multiplying the quotient-
figure 7 into the divifor, fay, 7 times 7 is 49, and 3 of
carriage from the right, (arifing from 7X5=35), makes
52 ; fo fet down 2, and carry 5. The fame method is
obferved in multiplying every other quotient-figure into
the divifor.
The fame Example at large.
A
3.4637528)95-4327
6.92750
56463275(27.55183
56 
261577004
242462 696
I9II4
17318
3086
7640
179554463
173187640
63
668232
34637528
290307047
27 7100224
132068235
103912588
29055647
B
7170
6555
615
561
*4
Here, we put a Hop to the operation ; becaufe, by the
rule for approximates, the next figure of the quot would
be uncertain.
We lhall conclude divifion of finite decimals with two
very ufeful problems.
Prob. I. From a given multiplier to find a divifor
that gives a quot equal to the produCt.
Rule. Divide an unit with ciphers annexed by the
given multiplier, and the quot will be the divifor fought.
Examp. What divifor will give a quot equal to the
product of 125 into the dividend ?
Given multiplier 125)1 .ooo( .008 divifor fought.
1000
' Now, if any number be divided by .008, .and the
fame number be multiplied by 125, the quot and product
will be equal.
.008)7315.000(914375 quot.
72 
11 7315
S 125
35 36575
32 14630
— 7315
30  
24 9M375 product.
60
j6
40
40
The reafon is plain: for an unit contains the quot .008
juft 125 times; and confequently .008 dividing any num¬
ber
ARITHMETICS. ^13
ber will give a qtiot 125 times greater than the dividend;
that is, the quot will be equal to the produft of the di¬
vidend multiplied by 125.
Pros. II. From a given divifor to find a multiplier
that gives a produdt equal to the quot.
Rule. Divide an unit with ciphers annexed by the
given divifor, and the quot will be the multiplier fought.
Examp. What multiplier will give a produft equal
to the quot arifing from the fame number divided by
.008 ?
Given divifor .008)1.000(125 multiplier fought.
20
16
40
40
Now, if any number be multiplied by 125, and the
fame number be divided by .008, the product and quot
will be equal; as appears in the example following.
785 .008)785.000(98x25 quot.
125 72
3925 65
1570 64
785 —
  10
98125 product 8
20
16
40
40
Rule II. If a finite divifor divide a repeating divi¬
dend, work as in integers; but in continuing the divi-
fion, inftead of annexing ciphers to the remainder, annex
the repeating figure of the dividend.
Ex. 1. Ex. 2.
4)5.10(1.2910
30 4
# 3 11
8
36
6
4
26
24
Rule III. If a finite divifor divide a circulating di¬
vidend, work as in integers ; but in continuing the divi-
fion, inftead of annexing ciphers to the remainder, an¬
nex the circulating figures of the dividend.
Vol. I. No. 18.
t
Ex. 1. Ex. 2.
7)3-370,(.481,481, •5)3-7»592,(7-5i8,5
28 *•
57
56
10
7
*33
28
57
56
IQ
7
*3
Rule IV. If the divifor be interminate, reduce it to
a vulgar fraction, as taught in reduftion of decimals,
Prob. V.; then multiply the given dividend by the de¬
nominator, and divide the produdl by the numerator.
Here there are fix cafes; for the divifor may either
repeat or circulate, and may divide a finite, a repeating,
or circulating dividend.
Case I. When a repeating divifor divides a finite
dividend.
Examp. Divide 23.5 by .4'=4
9
4)211.5(52.875
20
3.5 •• • -5
* 25 3,7,592, .proof.
25
9
5
42
40
*2.5
8
35
32
30
28
20
20
Case II. When a repeating divifor divides a repeat
ing dividend.
Examp. Divide 43.20 by .3* = ^
43-20
9 Or rather thus :
432.06
43-20
3)389.40(129.8
3)389.40(129.8
3 • • • quot.
8
6
29
27
24
24
|M
3
Case III.
4M
Case. III.
culate.
A R I T H M
When a repeating divifor divides a cir-
Examp. Divide 92.518, by .4 = 4
92.518, Or rather thus : 925.185,
9 92.518,
832.^66
4)832.^66(208.1^
32
32
6
4
26
24
Case IV. When a circulate divides a finite divi¬
dend.
Examp. Divide 9 by .45
In order to multiply the divi¬
dend 9 by 99, firft multiply it
by too, which is done by an¬
nexing two ciphers ; and from
this product fubtradl the divi¬
dend.
441
405
360
360
Case V. When a circulate divides a repeating di-
dend.
Examp, Divide j.ga’.by
S83.33
5.83
72)577.50(8.02083
576
150
144
600
576
In order to multiply the di¬
vidend by 99, move the deci¬
mal point two places to the
right, and then fubtradt the
given dividend.
24a
216
*24
Ca s a VI. When a circulate. divides; a circulate^
E T I C K.
Examp. Divide .962, by .18, —-J-J
96.296,
.962,
i8)95-?33(5>29<»»
90 • • •
36
173
162
113
108
*5
When the circle of the quot is likely to run on to
many places, you may flop the operation, and com¬
plete the quot by a vulgar fraftion ; as in the following
example.
Examp. Divide 34.56097, by 3.592,= Vw
3 •S92>)3 4560.97560,
3 34-56097,
3589) 34526.41463,(9.6200653^1^%^
32301  
22254
21534
7201 Or, 9.6200653-yyYyijWrJ
7178
™ 23463
The quot would run 21534
on to 49 figures of a 
finite part, and then a 19294
circle of 6 5 places; but
limit it at feven places
of decimals, and then
complete U by a vulgar
fradtion; as follows.
17945
*3491
10767
(2724)
Complete the partial remainder 2724 by annexing to-
it the circle of the dividend, and placing both, by way^
of numerator, over the divifor 3589.
The numerator of this complex f'radlion being a mixt
number, reduce it to an improper fradtion, by multiply¬
ing 2724 by the denominator 99999, and
adding the numerator 46341 to the pro-
dudl j as in the margin : and then, inftead
of the mixt number, the numerator of the
complex fradlion will be Or
rather work thus : Efteem 2724,46341, a
circulate ; and then you find the numerator
of the vulgar fradhion by fubtradting the fi¬
nite part.
27240000c*
2724
272443617-
Next-
A R I T H M
Next divide this fractional numerator
358900000 by the denominator ; which is done by
3 589 multiplying 3 589 by 99999, as in the mar-
 gin ; and now the Ample vulgar fraction
358896411 to be annexed to the partial quot is
If the quot thus completed be multiplied by the divi-
for, it will produce the dividend.
VII. Decimal Prafiice.
The price of goods or merchandife may be call up
decimally by any of the methods following.
Method I. Find the decimal of the rate, v/z. the
value of one yard, one pound, one piece, <bc. ; and this
decimal of the rate multiplied into the number or quan¬
tity of the goods gives the price.
Ex. 1. At 3 s. 4 d. what coft 346 ?
The decimal of the
rate is .1^=^.
sl°)5i9|°(57-0
45'
L. s. d.
= 57 13 4,
346
15
1730
346
E T I C K. 415
Ex. 7. At 6 s. 8 d. what coll 439 ?
The decimal of the L. f. d.
rate is .s' 3)439(146.3= 146 6 8
Meth. II. When the rate confifts of pence and far¬
things, find how often it is contained in one pound Ster¬
ling, divide the given number of goods by this number,
or by its component parts, or work by aliquot parts, and
the refult will be the price fought.
We confine this method to fuch rates as confifi: of
pence and farthings, becaufe when the rate confifis of
/hillings, pence, and farthings, or of pounds, /hillings,
pence, <bc. it is /horter and eafier to work by Me¬
thod I.
To make the praflice ready and eafy, it will be pro¬
per to have at hand a table of rates and divifors, fuch as
the following one.
69
63
60
54
Table 0/’Rates and Divisors.
Rates.
d.
Divif
6,40.
4,30.
80.
60.
6,8.
40.
40+6.
3°*
3>8>4°-
8,6,4.
4,30,4-8.
80.4- 12.
60.4- 4 of 4.
40,-8.
404-4 of 6.
404-64-4 of 6.
304-4 of 8.
80,X3. 80,X3,-fi2 of80,
8,3. 30,4-4,4-8 of 4.
20,-12. 40,Xs, 8 of 40.
D.vif.
4,40.
4,-30,4-4-
8o,4-6.
604-8..
40—12.
404-12.
404-4.
304-2 of 8
8o,X3,4-6 of 80.
20,—8.
40,X2,—12 of 40.
3 Fartb.
Divif.
8,40.
4,30—8-
80,—12,
80,4-4.
6o4-84-2 of 8.
40—4 of 6.
404-8.
40+44-6 of 4.
80,X3,—12 of 80.
8o,X3,+4 of 80.
407+2,+2,+6.
8,3,+5—8 of .5
In the above table the pence (land in the left-hand
column, and the farthings on the head, and the divifors
ia the angle of meeting ; which are to be underftood and
read as follows.
3,8,40. Divide the given number of goods by 3,
divide the quot by 8, and again divide this lall quot by 40.
4.30, —8. Divide the number of goods by 4, divide
the quot by 30, and from this lall quot fubtraft one Sth
of itfelf.
80+12. To an 80th add a 12th of that 80th.
4.30, +4. To a 30th of a 4th add a 4th of that
30th,.
60;
I
4^
A R I T H M E T
C K.
6o,+4 of 4, Divide by 60, divide again the quot by
4, and to the firft quot add a 4th of the fecond quot.
80X3,— f 2 of 80. Divide by 80, multiply the quot
by 3, and from the produd fubtrad a 12th of the firft
quot.
Ex. .1. At 1 per yard, what coft 432 yards ?
One 3 d = 144
One 8th of that = 18
One 40th of that = .45 = 93.
Ex. 2. At 3 f. what coft 728.5 ?
Yards, L.
L. s. d.
7 = 3W&Z
70= 39-9583'
700= 399-58j
7000 = 3995.83’
70000= 399583
700000 = 399583.3'
= 3 19 11
= 39 19 2
= 399 11 8
= 3995 16 8
= 39958 6 8
= 399583 6 8
Now, every number may be refolved into decuples of
the feveral digits of which it is compofed ; find therefore
the price of each decuple by itfelf, as already taught,
and their fum will be the price of the whole.
One8th= 91.0625 L. s. d.
On^s 40th ©f that = 2.2765625 = 2 5 6j-
Meth. III. The third method is by decimal tables
of rates fuited to the nine digits ; fuch as thofe com¬
pofed and publfhed by the Rev. Mr George Brown in
1718, under the title of Arithmetica Infinita, and re¬
commended by Dr John Keill profeflbr of aftronomy in
the univerfity of Oxford.
Thefe tables are ftill extant, and extend from 1 far¬
thing to 20s.; a (hort fpecimen of which, with their
conftru&ion, and the manner of ufing them, we fhall here
fubjoin.
Decimal Table of Rates, 1 /. the integer.
Rate.
s. d.
11 5l
0.5739583'
I.I479I0
1.721875
2.29583
2.869791^
3-44375
4.0177083
4,59I0
5-165625
0.57083 0.571875
1.1416 1.14375
1.7125 1.715625
° 572910
14583
71875
4:2.283 2.2875
5 | 2.854101 2.859375
6,3-425 3-43125
2.2910
2.864583
3-4375
7 8-99583'i 4-003’25
8 4-56 U-575
9 5 1375 15.M6875
4.01041$
4- 583’
5- 15625
In the left-hand column Hand the nine digits ; and on
the right of 1 are the decimals of the refpe&ive rates on
the head. Thus, .5708315 the decimal of ns. 5d.
one pound being the integer ; and .571875 is the deci¬
mal of ns. 5^d. tec. Thofe decimals oppofite to 1
being multiplied through the nine digits, make up or
compofe the reft of the table.
The fuperior excellency of tables thus conftruSed is,
that we multiply or divide by 10, 100, 1000, tec. by
moving the decimal point fo many places to the right or
left as there are ciphers in the multiplier or divifor.
Hence the price or value of any number of yards, or
other things, denoted.by a dingle digit, or by any of its
decuples, may be readily found. Thus, the price of
7, 70, 700, 7000, 70000, 700000 yards, at 11 s. yd.
per yard, is found as follows.
Examp. i. Required the price of 7956 yards, at
11 s. y^d. per yard.
Yards. L.
7000 = 4017.708333
900= 516.5625
50= 28.697910
6 = 3-44375
 L. s. d.
4566.412500 = 4566 8 3
Examp. 2. How much money will one fpend in a
year, or 365 days, at the rate of 11 s. fid. per day ?
Days. L.
300 = 171.875
60= 34.375
5= 2.864583
  L. s. d.
209.114583 = 209 2 -34
Tables of this fort may be framed for a great variety
of ufeful purpofes, and are eafily conftrufted.
Thus, fuppofe a table wanted for fhowing the daily in¬
come of any annuity, or yearly penfion; in this cafe, di¬
vide 1 by 365, and the quot is the income of 11. an¬
nuity for one day; and by multiplying this quot through
the nine digits, the table is conftrutted as follows.
The ufe of the table will beft ap¬
pear by examples ; which take as
follows.
Example 1.
If one has a yearly penfion of
375 1. what is his daily income ?
L.
300= .8219
70= .1917
5= .0136 ^
1.0272 = 1
Table.
i|.o,02739726,
2 .0,05479452,
31.0,08219178,
410,10958904,
yj.0,131698630,
6 .0,16438356,
7 .0,19178082,
8 .0,21917808,
9j.o,24657534,
/. d.
o 6^
Example 2.
The yearly rent of a gentleman’s eftate is 968 1. 10 s.
what can he afford to fpend per day l
L. 900
A R I T H M
L.
900 =2.4657
60 = .1643
8 = .0219
0.5 = .9013
 L. s. d.
2.6532 = 2 "13 ol
If the income for any number of days be required,
find the income for one day as above ; and multiply the
decimal anfwer by the given number of days. Or,
multiply the yearly penfion by the given number of days,
and ufe the product as the yearly penfion. Thus, in
Ex. 2. if the gentleman’s income for 64 days be de¬
manded, you may either multiply 2.6532 by 64 ; or
multiply 968.5 by 64; and then work for the product
as follows.
968.5 60000=164.3835
64 1000= 2.7397
—  900= 2.4657
38740 80= .2191
58x10 4= .0109
*  —  L. s. d.
61984.0 169.8189 = 169 16 4i
The decimals in the table being circles of eight figures,
we have ufed them as approximates, by confining the
operations to four decimal places ; which, in affairs of
this kind, is fufficiently accurate.
If the annual interelt of any principal fum be confi-
dered as the yearly penfion, the intereft of the fame
principal for any number of days may be found by the
table as taught above. .
The intereft of any principal fum for a year is eafily
found, as being always the hundredth part of the pro-
du<51: of the principal multiplied by the rate per cent.
Exam?. Required the intereft for 26 days of 685 1.
principal, at 5 per cent,
L.
685
5
34.25 anmjal intereft.
26
—   800 =2.19178
20550 90 = .24657
6850 0.5= .00136
    — L. s. d.
890.50 2.43971 =2 8 9t
Duodecimals.
Decimal pradice may be ufed with great advantage in
the multiplication and divifion of duodecimals, where
the integer is divided into twelve equal parts, called
primes, and each prime into twelve feconds, each fecond
into twelve thirds, 'be.
For the ready converfion of primes, feconds, thirds,
be: into decimals of the integer, the following table, is
conftruded.
E T I C K, 417
Decimal table of primes, feconds, &c.
Fourths.
.OOOO4822
.OOOO9645
.OOOI4467
.OOOI929O
.OOO24112
.OOO28935
.OOO33757
.00038580
.OOO43402
.OOO48215
.OOO53047
Primes. Seconds,
083'
.00694'
.013$
.02083’
.02^
•0347^
.0410
.0486/
•0/
.0625
.0694
.07638
.000578,703.
.001157,407;
.001736,111,
.002314,814,
002893,518,
,003472,222,
.004050,925,
.004629,629,
.005208,333,
,005787,037,
,006365,740,
In the column of fourths, the decimals run on to
eight places of a finite part, and nine figures of a circle ;
but the finite part by itfelf, which alone is inferted in
the table, will be found fufficient; and in the column
of thirds too, the circle of three figures may in moft
cafes be negleded.
I. Multiplication.
Example r.
What is the produfl of 247 by 18 5
24 7 = 24.583
18 5 = i8..4I0=
/ Or thus:; i
*4-5833^
014.8i
2458333
1966666
98333
.2458
452.5790
f = 819
T = 8i9
452.7428
12
8.9136
12
10.9632
24.583*
16575
122910
1720833
12291066
147500000
245833333
9)00) 407468.750
452.743°?
12
8.9i066
11.000
Anf 452 8 11
3 t
5 N IB
Vol. I. Numb. 18.
4,8 A R I T H M
In working by the inverted method, for the repeating
& in the multiplier, take \ of the multiplicand. The
refult wants very little of the true anfwer.
Examp. 2.
Multiply 18 6 by 2 4, and 2 3 continually.
E T I C K.
Examp. 1.
Divide 97 1 6 = 97.125
by 2 3 =2.25 and the quot
by 18 6 = 18.5
18.5)
2.25)97.125(43.1^(2.$
900 * * 370 12
18 6= 18.5 2.3'
2 4= 2.% 18.5
2 3 = 2.25  
1
1806
43-10
2.25
2\tfg
86333
.863533
97.1250
12 dnf. 97
1.500
12
6
II. Divifion.
Examp. 1.
Divide 452 8 11=452.7430/
by 18 5 = 18.410= ,f£r§*
18.416)4527.430/5
1841 452*743°J'
16575)407468.750(24.583:
33150* * * * 12
75968 7.000
66300
96687
82875.
138125
132600
J»f. 24 7
55250
49725
*5525
712 616 4.0
675 555
375 *6i
225
1500
I35O 2 4
. *150
Sexagesimals.
Decimal praftice might likewife be ufed to good pur-
pofe in the arithmetic of fexagefimals, as it would fliorten
and facilitate the operations.
Sexagefimals, ftriftly fpeaking, are degrees, minutes,
feconds, thirds, where each degree is divided into
60 minutes, and each minute into 60 feconds, ; but
under this title is alfo ufually comprehended the divifion
of a fign into 30 degrees. They are commonly marked
as under.
Signs, deg. min. fee. thirds.
7 24 36 54 48 6-c.
Sexagefimals properly belong to allronomy, being ufed
in computations of motion and time, where the degree
of motion, and hour of time, are equally divided into
60 minutes. The preference of the decimal method to
that of the fexagefimal will appear from the following
example of addition done both ways.
Sexagefimally. Decimally.
Signs. ° S.
10 20 47 17 = 10.69293,518,
7 18 50 40= 7.628:4,814,
9 25 30 28 = 9.85018,518,
11 10 40 50= 11.35601,851,
3 15 49 7 = 3 52728,703,
From the above example it is obvious, that even in
addition the decimal operation is more fimple and eafy
than the fexagefimal, efpecially if care be taken to ufe
no more decimal places than what are abfolutely nocef-
fary.
But in multiplication and divifion the advantage of the
decimal method is ftill greater; for in the fexagefimal
way the operation is extremely tedious ; whereas, by
working decimally, it is performed in the fame manner,
and with the fame eafe, as in duodecimals.
Vulgar Fractions.
Decimal practice may fometimes be profitably ufed in
the
A R I T H M
the arithmetic of vulgar fraftions, the operation being
fliorter and eafier in the decimal than in the vulgar way.
This we fhall illuftrate by a few examples.
I. Addition.
E T I C K.
and 6T7-ff=6.3$
.36,)638.$8(
oo 6.3$
  L. s. d.
36)632.50(17.5694=17 11 4|-
36- ••
419,
Ex. r. What is the fum of j+yi. ?
i = -25
t=.^66
/. d.
.91^=18 4
Ex. 2. What is the fum of I4y+i8y-h^ of £ C. ?
C.
14^=14.875
18-f = 18.^666
Tofi= i=P *625
 C. <t lb.
34.1^66 = 34 O l8y
II. Subtraction.
Ex. j. From ^ fubtrafl yl.
It=-$33
  /. d.
.41^=8 4
Ex. 2. From 4. of ^ fubtrad 4 of 4 ft. Troy.
lb.
Tof7 = A = .583'3
4of4= 4 =.125
  02. t/'iu.
•4585 = 5 JO
IIL Multiplication*.
E*\ Multiply i9T7T by 22 -f feet.
F.
19W - - - =19.58^
22f=22.^=Iy, 201
19583'
3916^66
9)3936.250
  Sq.f. fq.in„
437.36/i' = 437 52
272
252
205
180
250
21.6
340
324
160
144
Rule of Three Direft.
Decimal pradice is frequently the fhorteft andeafie/F
method of operation in the rule of three.
Examp. I. If C. 3 : 1 : 14 of raifins coft L. 10 1:
2 : 6, what will 6. C. 3 Q^coft at that rate ?
C. %.lb. L. s. d. C.
Vulgar ftate 3 1 14 : 10 2 6 :: 6 3
Detumal date 3.375 : 10.125 :: 6.75
6.75
5062;
70875
60750
 L. s,
3*375)^8.34375(20.25=20 5
6750 •••
8437
6750
16875
16875
II. Divifon.
Ex, Divide by -fV
Examp. II. If a wedge of gold, weighing- 14 lb.
3 0Z. 8,dw. coft L. 514,4s. what is that per ounce ?
Vulgar
A R I T H M E T 1 C K.
lb. oz. dnu. ' L. s. oz.
Vulgar date 14 ? 8 : 514 4 :: 1
Decimal ftate 14.285 *. 514.2 :: .085
514.2
168
8333
41^666
I4.285)42.85'o6(
1428 42.850
12855)38565-0(3 Anf.
38565
Rule of Three Inverfe.
Examp. If you borrow L. 64 for 8 months, what
fum lent for 12 months, or a year, will requite the fa¬
vour ?
r. l. r.
Vulgar ftate 1 : 64 " T®»
Decimal ftate 1 : 64 :: ^
6
— L. s. d.
9)384(42.^=42 13 4
36*
24
18 Or thus:
60 3)64(21.3-
54
*6 The fame 42.^ as before.
Compound Rule of Three.
Ex amp. What is the intereft of L. 75 : 10 : 4 for
8 months; at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum ?
M. L. L. L. s. d. M.
Vulgar (late 12 X 100 : 5 :: 75 10 4X8
Decimal Hate 12X100: 5 :: 75.516X8
12 8
Chap. XII. Extraction of Roots.
' - If unity be multiplied continually by any given num¬
ber, the produfts thence arifing are called poolers of that
number j and the given number is called the rost, or firjl
power.
Thus, if 2 be the given number, then 1X2=2 is the
root or firft power; and 2X2=4 *s t^e Hjuare or fecond
power; and 4X2=8 is the cube or third power; and
8X2=16 is the biquadrate or fourth power; and 16X
2=32 is the furfohd or fifth power; and 32X2=6448
the fixth power, or cube fquared, <bc.
The natural numbers, 1, 2, 3, <bd. are fometimes
placed over thefe powers, denoting the number of mul¬
tiplications ufed in producing them, or fhowing what
powers they are ; and are called indices or exponents> as
in the following fcheme.
Indices, o, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, <bc.
Powers, 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128,
The raifing any root or number given to any power
required, is called involution; and is performed by mul¬
tiplying the given root into unity continually, as taught
above. But the finding the root of a given power is
called evolution, or extraftion of roots.
If the root of any power not exceeding the feventh
power, be a Angle digit, it may be obtained by infpec-
tion, from the following table of powers.
TABLE.
1200 : 5 :: 604.153
5
12(00) 3020.666(
L.
2.517/ =2 10 4
The fimple feparate operations of the fame example
follow.
h. L. L. M. L. M.
XOO : 5 :: 75.516 12 : 3.77585 ^ 8
5 8
j!oo)377.585(
2)3o.2o/66(
2.517/ Anf
I. Extraction of the Square Root.
Rule I. Divide the given number into periods
of two figures, beginning at the right hand in integers,
and pointing toward the left. But in decimals, begin at
the place of hundreds, and point toward the right. E-
very period will give one figure in the root.
II. Find by the table of powers, or by trial, the
nearefl: leffer root of' the left-hand period, place the fi¬
gure fo found in the quot, fubtraft its fquare from the
faid period, and to the remainder bring down the next
period for a diyidual or refolvend'.
III. Double the quoFfor the firft part of the divi-
for; inquire how often this firft part is contained in the
whole refolvend, excluding the units place; and place
the figure denoting the anfwer both in the quot and on
the
3-7 758$
ARITHMETICS 421
the right of th6 firft part; and you have the divifor com¬
plete. ,
IV. Multiply the divifor thus compleated by the fi¬
gure put in the quot, fubtratt the product from the re-
folvend, and to the remainder bring down the following
period for a new refolvend, and then proceed as before.
1 Note 1. If the firft part of the divifor, with unity
fuppofed to be annexed to it, happen to be greater than
the refolvend, in this cafe place o in the quot, and alfo
on the right of the partial .divifor;. to the refolvend
bring down another period; and proceed to divide as
before.
Note 2. If the product-of the quotient-figure into the
divifor happen to be greater than the refolvend, you mull
go back, and give a lelfer figure to the quot.
Note 3. If, after every period of the given numbef is
brought down, there happen at laft to be a remainder,
you may continue the operation, by annexing periods or
pairs of ciphers, till there be no remainder, or till the
decimal part of the quot repeat or circulate, or till you
think proper to limit it.
Examp. I. Required the fquare root of 133225.
Square number 133225(365 root 365
9 .365
1 div. 66) 432 refolvend. 1825
396 product. 2190
  1095
2 div. 725) 3625 refolvend. 
3625 produft. 133225 proof.
Examp. II. Required the fquare root of 72, to
eight decimal places.
72 00000000(8.48528137 root.
64
164)800
656
1688)14400
13504
16965)89600
84825
169702)477500
339404
169704)138096
•••• 135763
After getting half of the de¬
cimal places, work by contradt-
ed divifion for the other half;
and obtain them with the fame
accuracy as if the work had
been at large.
2333
1697
Vol. I.
636
509
127
118
(9)
No. 18.
t 3
Examp. III. Required the fquare root of .2916.
.29i6(.54 root.
25
104) 416
416
If the fquare root of a vulgar fra&ion be required,
find the root of the given numerator for a new nume¬
rator, and find the root of the given denominator for a
new denominator. Thus, the fquare root of is 4, aE>d
the root of is £; and thus the root of y (=6£) is
4r = 2 _ .
But if the root of either the numerator or denomina¬
tor cannot be extracted without a remainder, reduce the
vulgar fraction to a decimal, and then extradl the root,
as in Example III. above.
II. Extraction of the Cube Root.
Rule I. Divide the given number into periods of
three figures, beginning at rhe right hand in integers, and
pointing toward the left. But in decimals, begin at the
place of thoufands, and point toward the right. The
number of periods (hews the number of figures in the
root.
II. Find by the table of powers, or by trial, the
neareft leffer root of the left-hand period; place the fi¬
gure fo found in the quot; fubtradt its cube from tiiie
faid period; and to the remainder bring down the next
period for a dividual or refolvend.
The divifor confifts of three parts which may be found
as follows.
III. The firft part of the divifor is found thus:
Multiply the fquare of the quot by 3, and to the pro¬
duct annex two ciphers; then inquire how often this firft
part of the divifor is contained in the refolvend, and
place the figure denoting the anfwer in the quot.
IV. Multiply the former quot by 3, and the prodiidt
by the figure now'put in the quot; to this laft product,
annex a cipher; and you have the fecond part of the di¬
vifor. Again, fquare the figure now put in the quot for
the third part of the divifor; place thefe three parts un¬
der one another, as in addition; 'and their fum will be
the divifor complete.
V. Multiply the divifor, thus completed, by the fi¬
gure laft put in the quot, fubtradt the product from the
refolvend, and to the remainder bring down the follow¬
ing period for a new relblvend, and then proceed as be¬
fore.
Note x. If the firft part of the divifor -happen to be
equal to or greater than the refolvend, in this cafe place
o in the quot, annex two, ciphers to the faid firft part of
the divifor, to the refolvend bring down another period,
and proceed to divide as before.
Note 2. If the produft of the quotient-figure Into the
divifor happen to be greater than the refolvend, you muft
go back, and gjve a lefler figure to the quot.
Note 3. If, after every period of the given number is
brought down, there happen at laft to be a remainder,
you -may continue the operation by annexing periods of
three ciphers till there be no remainder, or till you have
5 O as
422 A R I T H M E T I C K.
as many decimal places in the root as you judge necef- tor cannot be extracted without a remainder, reduce the
fery. ' J **■ “
Examp. I. Required the cube root of 12812904.
Cube number 12812904(234 root
8
j ft part 1200") )4812 refolvend,
ad part i8o>
3d part 93
1 divifor 1389X3 = 4167 produdl.
)645904 refolvend.
2 divifor 161476 X 4=645904 produit^
PROOF.
234-
234
936
702
468
Square 54756 Cube 12812904
Examp. II. Required the cube root of 28^.
28.750000(3.06 root,
27 
) 1750000 refolv.
©iv. 275436 X 6 = 1652616 prod.
97384 rem.
PROOF.
Sq. 9.3636 '
3.06
561816-
280908
28.652616
97384 rem.
3.06
3.06
1836-
918
Sq. 9.3636
vulgar fradion to a decimal, and then extrad the soot.
III. Extrattion of the Biquadraie Root.
Rule. Extraft the fquare root of the given num¬
ber ; and again extrad the fquare root of the root f»
found, and the laft of thefe roots is the root fought.
Examp. Required the biquadrate root of 5308416.
5308416 (2304(48 root. .
.4 16
28.750000 cube.
If the cube root of a vulgar fradion be required, find
the cube root of the given numerator for a new nume¬
rator, and the cube root of the given denominator for a
new denominator. Thus, the cube root of t8t i* t> an<i
the cube root of ^ is ; and thus the cube root of *-|/
4=! 5$) is 4=24.
But. if the root of either, the numerator or denomina-
43)130
129
4604) i8j
88)704
704
If, in the firft extradion, there happen to be a re¬
mainder, continue the operation, by annexing pairs of
ciphers, till you have twice as many decimal places in
the fquare or firft root, as you propofe to have in the
laft root.
IV. Extraction of the root of the fifth power,
or furfolid.
Rule I. Divide the given number into periods of
five figures, find the neareft kfler root of the left-hand
period, put the figure fo found in the quot, fubtrad its
fifth power, and to the remainder bring down the next
period for a refolvend.
II. Put afi-y for the root, and then the furfolid op
fifth power will be aaaaa + $aaaay + 1 oaaayy -f-
1 oaayyy + qayyyy + yyyyy • Now,, aaaaa being already
fubtraded, there remains the other five parts ; and to
find jy, divide by its coefficient, viz. by ^aaaa-\-1 oaaay-\~
1 oaayy + e>ayyy + yyyy \ that is, try how often $aaaa
is contained in the refolvend; and, by the help of the
quotient-figure, you make up the other four parts of the
divifor.
Examp. Required the furfolid root of 33554432
33554432(32 root.
243
4050000 =
540000 =
36000 =
1200 =
16 =
) 9254432 refolv.
$aaaa
1oaaay
1 oaayy
s«yyy
yyyy
Divifor 4627216X2=9254432 prod.
To)
V. Extraction of the root of the Jixth power, or
cube fquared.
Rule. Extrad the fquare root of the given number,
and then extrad the cube toot of that root, the laft is
the..
A R I T H M E T I C K. 423
the root fought. Or, firfl: extract the cube root, and
then extract the fquare root of that root.
Examp. Required the root of 191x02976, being
the fixth power.
191102976 (13824(24 root.
1 8
23) .91 1200)5824 refolv.
69 240
—-— 16
268)2210  
2144 1456 X 4 = 5824 prod.
2762) 6629 (o)
5524
27644)iio576
110576
VI. Extraction of the root of the feventh power.
Rule. Put a-\-y for the root, and the feventh power
will be aaaaaaa+laaaaaay + 2 laaaaayy + ZSaaaayyy +
3 ^aaayyyy + 2\aayyyyy + tayyyyyy +yyyyyj,y, by the aid’
of which proceed as in extracting the root of the fifth
power.
Examp. Required the root of 3404825447, being
the feventh power.
3404825447(23 root.
128
)2.124823447 refolv.,
448000000 = laaaaaa
201600000 = i'iaaaaay
50400000 = Hjaauayy
7560000 = 'iSaaayyy
680400 = 21 aayyyy
34020 = Tayyyyy
729 = yyyyyy
©ivif. 708275149 X 3=2124825447 prod..
' (o>
VII. Extraction of the root of the eighth power.
Rule. Extrad the fquare root of the given number
continually till you have three roots; the lafl of thefe is
the root fought.
Thus, let 1785793904896 be the eighth power; by
extracting the Equate root you get the biquadrate or
fourth power, viz. 1336336; and by extracting the
fquare root of the biquadrate, you get the fquare or
fecond power, viz. 1156, whofe fquare root is 34, the
root fought.
VIII. Extraction of the root of the ninth power.
Rule. Extract the cube root of the given number,
and you have the cube or third power, whofe cube root
is the root fought.
Thus, let 5159780352 by the ninth power; by ex-
trading the cube root you get the cube or third power,
viz. 1728, whofe cube root 12 is the root fought.
Univerfally, whatever the given power be, put a y
for the root, and by involution raife a-\-y to the power
of the given number; then, with this as your guide or
canon, extrad the root in the manner prefcribed and~
exemplified in the. extraaion of the root of the fifth and
feventh powers.
But if the index of the given power, be a multiple of
2,' the work may be rendered eafier: For, by extraaing
the fquare root of the given number,, you obtain a power
whofe index is one half of the index of the given power.
Thus, by extraaing the fquare root of the tenth power].
you have the fifth power; and the fquare root of the
twelth power is the fixth power, <bc.
Again, if the index of the given power be a multiple
of 3, by extraaing the cube root you obtain a power
wbofe index is one third of the index of the power given.
Thus the cube root of the ninth power is the cube or
third power ; and the cube root of the twelfth power is
the biquadrate or fourth power, fyc.
Involution is direaly contrary to extraaion or evo-
lution; and therefore, , if a fquare number be fquared,.
it will give the biquadrate or fourth power; and-if a
biquadrate be fquared, it will give the eighth power. A-
gain, if a cube number be cubed, it will give the ninth
power; and if the biquadrate be cubed, it will give the
twelfth power. See Algebra, Chap. IX. and X.
For the application of Arithmetic to various branches •
of bufinefs, fee Alligation, Annuities, Bar¬
ter, Brokage, Bankruptcy, Exchange, Insu¬
rance, In tbrest, Mensuration, <bc. tec.
A R K ■
AR-ITHMOMANCY, a fpecies of divination performed
by means of numbers.
ARK, or Noah's Ark, a floating veflel built by Noah,
for the prefervation of his family, and the feveral fpeeies
of animals, during the deluge. See Plate XXXYIIL
. 1.
A R K
The ark has afforded feveral points - of curious in¬
quiry among the critics and naturalifls, relating to its
form, capacity, materials, Cye.
The wood whereof the ark was built', is called in the
Hebrew Gopher-wood, and in the Septuagint fquare
timbers. Some traaflate the original cedar, others pine,.
others*
ARK ( 424 ) A R K
others box, &c. Pelletier prefers cedar, on account of
its incorruptibility, and the great plenty of it in Afia;
whence Herodotus and Theophraftus relate, that the
kings of Egypt and Syria built whole fleets thereof*
inflead of deal.
The-learned Mr Fuller in his Mifcellanies, has ob-
feived, that the wood whereof the ark was built, was
nothing elfe but that which the Greek call ,
or the cyprtfs-trse ; for, taking away the termination,
kupar and gopher, differ yer.y little in found. This
obfervation the great Bochart has confirmed, and (hewn
very plainly that no country abounds fo much with
this wood as that part of Affyria which lies about Ba¬
bylon.
In what place Noah built and finifhed his ark is no lefs
made a matter of difputation. But the moft probable
opinion is, that it was built in Chaldaea, in the terri¬
tories of Babylon, where there was fo great a quanti¬
ty of cyprefs in the groves and gardens in Alexander’s
time, that that prince built a whole fleet out of it, for
want of timber. And this conjefture is confirmed by
the Chaldean tradition, which makes Xithurus (another
name for Noah) fet fail from that country.
The dimenfions of the ark, as given by Mofes, are
300 cubits in length, 50 in breadth, and 30 in height,
which feme have thought too fcanty, confidering the
number of things it was to contain ; and hence an ar¬
gument has been drawn againft the authority of the re¬
lation. To folve this difficulty many of the ancient
fathers, and the modern critics, have been put to ve¬
ry miferable flrifts: But Buteo and Kircher have proved
geometrically, that, taking the common cubit of a
foot and a half, the ark was abundantly fufficiertt for
all the animals fuppofed to be lodged in it. Snellius
computes the ark to have been above half an acre in
area, and father Lamy (hews, that it was no feet
longer than the church of St Mary at Paris, and 64
feet narrower; and if fo, it mult have been longer than
St Paul’s church in London, from weft to eaft; and
broader than that church is high in the infide, and 54
feet of our meafure in height ; and Dr Arbuthnot
computes it to have been 81062 tuns.
The things contained in it were, befides eight per-
fons of Noah’s,family, one pair of every fpecies of un¬
clean animals, and feven pair of every fpecies of clean
animals, with provifiens for them all during the whole
year. The former appears, at firft view, almoft in¬
finite; but if we come to a calculation, the number of
fpecies of animals will be found much lefs than is ge¬
nerally imagined, not amounting to an hundred fpecies
of quadrupeds, nor to two hundred of birds ; out of
which, in this cafe, are excepted Inch animals as can live
in the water. Zoologifts ufually reckon but an hundred
and feventy fpecies in all; and bifhop Wilkins /hews that
only feventy-two of the q uadruped kind needed a place
in the ark.
By the defeription Mofes gives of the ark, it^ap¬
pears to have been divided into three ftories, each
ten cubits, or fifteen feet high ; and it is agreed
on, as moft probable, that the loweft ftory was for
the beafts, the middle for the food, and the upper
for. the birds, with Noah and his family; each ftory
being fabdivided into different apartments, ftalls, <bc.
Though jofephus, Philo, and other commentators, add
a kind of fourth ftory under all the reft ; being, as it
were, the hold of the veffel, to contain the ballaft, and
receive the filth and faeces of fo many animals: But
F. Calmet thinks, that what is here reckoned a ftory,
was no more than what is called the keel of fhips, and
ferved only for a confervatory of frefti water. Drexe-
lius makes three hundred apartments. F. Fournier,
three hundred and thirty-thiee; the anonymous author
of the Queftions on Genefis, Four hundred; Buteo,
Temporarius, Arias Montanus, Hoftus, Wilkins,
Lamy, and. others, fuppofe as many partitions as there
were different forts of animals. Pelletier makes only
feventy-two, viz. thirty-fix for the birds, and as
many for the beafts; his reafon is, that if we fup¬
pofe a greater number, as 333, or 400, each of the
eight perfons in the ark mult have had thirty-feven,
forty-one, or fifty ftalls to attend and cleanfe daily,
which he thinks impoflible to have been done. But it
is obferved, that there is not much in this; to dimi-
nifh the number of ftalls without a diminution of ani¬
mals is vain; it being perhaps more difficult to take
care of three hundred animals in feventy-two ftalls,
than in three hundred. As to the number of animals
contained in the ark, Buteo computes that it could
not be equal to five hundred horfes ; he even reduces
the whole to the dimenfions of fifty-fix pair of oxen.
F. Lamy enlarges it to fixty-four pair of oxen, or an
hundred and twenty-eight oxen; fo that fuppofing one
ox equal to two . horfes, if the ark had room for two
hundred and fifty-fix horfes, there mult have been
room for all the animals. But the fame author de-
monftrates, that one floor of it would fuffice for five
hundred horfes, allowing nine fquare feet to a horfe.
As to the food in the fecond ftory, it is obferved by
Buteo from Columella, that thirty or forty pounds of
hay ordinal ily fuffices for an ox a day, and that a fo-
lid cubit of hay, as ufually preffed down in our hay¬
ricks, weighs about forty pounds; fo that a fquare
cubit of hay is more than enough for one ox in one
day. Now it appears that the fecond ftory contained
150,000 folid cubits, which divided between two
hundred and fix oxen, will afford each more hay by
two thirds, than he can eat in a year. Bilhop Wil¬
kins computes all the carnivorous animals, equivalent,
as to the bulk of their bodies, and their food, to twen-
ty-feven wolves; and all the reft to two hundred and
eighty beeves. For the former he allows 1825
fheep, and for the latter, 109,500 cubits of hay, all
which will be eafily contained in the two firft ftories,
and a deal of room to fpare., As to the third ftory,
no body doubts of its being fufficient for the fowls;
with Noah, his fons, and daughters. Upon the whole,
the learned bifhop remarks, that of the two, it appears
much'more difficult to affign a number and bulk of
neceffary things to anfwer the capacity of the ark,
than to find fufficient room for the feveral fpecies of ani¬
mals already known to have been there. This he at¬
tributes to the imperfection of our lift of animals, e-
of the roy^XAINT
j
Fla t eTXXXVJ JT j
A II M
ARM ( 425 )
fpecially thofe of the unknown parts of the earth; add¬
ing, that the mod expert mathematician at this day
could not aflign the proportion of a veflel better ac¬
commodated to the purpofe than is here done; and
hence finally concludes, that the capacity of the ark,
which had been make an objedtion againft fcripture,
_ ought to be efteemed a confirmation of its divine autho¬
rity, fince, in thofe ruder ages, men, being lefs verfed in
arts and philofophy, were more obnoxious to vulgar
prejudices than now; fo that had it been an human in¬
vention, it would have been contrived, according to
thofe wild apprehenfions which arife from a confufed
and general view of things, as much too big, as it had
been reprefented too little.
But it mud be obferved, that befides the places re-
. quifite for the beads and birds, and their provifions,
there was room required for Noah to lock up houfe-
hold utenfils, the indruments of hulbandry, grains and
feeds, to fow the earth with after the deluge ; for
which purpofe it is thought that he might fpare room
in the. third dory for fix and thirty cabbins, befides
a kitchen, a hall, four chambers, and a fpace about
eight and forty cubits in length to walk in.
Ark of the covenant > a fmall ched or coffer, three feet
nine inches in length, two feet three inches in breadth,
and two feet three inches in height, in which were con¬
tained the golden pot that had manna, and Aaron’s
rod, and the tables of the covenant. This coffer was
made of ftiittim-wood, and was covered with the mer¬
cy-feat, which was of folid gold ; at the two ends
whereof were two cherubims, looking toward each
other, with expanded wings, which, embracing the
whole circumference of the mercy-feat, met on each
fide in the middle. The whole, according to the*
rabbins, was made out of the fame mafs, without
joining any of the parts by folder. Here it was that
the Schechinah or Divine Prefence reded, both in the
taberna.de and in the temple, and was vifibly feen in
the appearance of a cloud over it; and from hence the
Divine oracles were given out by an audible voice, as
often as God was confulted in the behalf of his peo¬
ple. PlateXXXVIII. fig. 2.
ARKLOW, a fea-port town of Ireland, fituated in the
county of Wicklow, about thirteen miles fouth of the
city of Wicklow, in 6° 20' W. long, and 520 55'
N. lat.
ARLES, a city of Provence in France, fituated on the
eadern fhore of the river Rhone, in 40 45 E. long,
and 430 32/FJ. lat.
ARLEUX, a town of Hainault, in the French Nether¬
lands, fituated about fix miles fouth of Douay, in
30 E long, and 50° 20 N. lat.
ARLON, a town of the duchy of Luxemburg, on the
Audrian Netherlands, fituated in 50 30' E. long, and
490 45' N. lat.
ARM, in riding, is applied to a horfe, when, by pref-
iirg down his head, he endeavours to defend himfelf
againd the bit, to prevent obeying, or being checked
thereby.
ARMADA, a Spanilh term, fignifying a fleet of men
of war, as amtadilla fignifies a iquadron.
Vol. I. No. iS.
ARMADABAT, a very large city of Alia, the’metro¬
polis of the kingdom of Guzarat.
ARMADILLO, in zoology, a fynonime of the dafypus.
See Dasypus.
ARMAGH, once a confiderable city of Ireland, but
now much reduced, fituated ffbout thirty miles fouth
of Londonderry, in 6° 45' W. long and 54° 3Q/N.
lat. It is dill the fee of the primate of Ireland, and
gives name to the county of Armagh.
ARMAGNAC, a didrift or territory in the nerth-ead
part of Gafcony in France.
ARMAN, in farriery. See Drench.
ARMED, in the fea-language. A crofs-bar fhot, is
faid to be armed, when fome rope-yarn or the like is
rolled about the end of the iron bar, which runneth
through the ftiot.
Armed, in heraldry, is ufed when the horns, feet,
beak, or talons of any bead or bird of prey, are of a
different colour from the red of their body.
ARMENIA, a large country of Afia, comprehending
Turcomania and part of Peifia.
ARMENIACA, in botany. See Prunus.
ARMENIANS, in church-hidory, a feft among the
eadern Chriltians ; thus called from Armenia, the
country anciently inhabited by them. There are two
kinds of Armenians, the one catholic and fubjeft to
the pope, having a patriarch in Perfia, and another'in
Poland; the other makes a peculiar feft, having two
patriarchs in Natolia. They are generally accufed of
being manophyfites, only allowing of one nature fin
Jefiis Chrid, As to the eucharid, they for the mod
part agree with the Greeks ; they abdain rigoroufly
from eating of blood and meats drangled, and are
much addifted to fading.
ARMENTIERS, a fortified town in French Flanders,
fituated about feven miles wed of Lifle, in 20 jc/ E.
long, and 50° £,2 N. lat.
ARMIERS, a town of Hainault, in the French Nether¬
lands, fituated on the river Sambre, about twenty
milesfouth ofMons,in 304c/E.long and 50° ly'N.lat.
ARMIGER, an efquire, or armour-bearer. See Es¬
quire.
ARMILLARY, in a general fenfe, fomething con¬
fiding of rings, or circles.
ARMILLARYy^rc, an artificial fphere, compofed of.
a number of circles, reprefenting the feveral circles of
the mundane fphere, put together in their natural or- -
der, to eafe and affid the imagination, in conceiving
the conditution of the heavens, and the motions of
the celedial bodies. See Geography.
ARMILUSTRIUM, in Roman antiquity, a fead held
among the Romans, in which ;they facriiiced armed, to
the found of trumpets.
ARMINGS, in the fea-language. See Armed.
ARMINIANS, in ehurch-hidory, a feft of Chridians
which arofe in Holland, by a Reparation from the Cal-
vinids. They are great aflertors of free-will. They
fpeak very ambiguoufly of the prefence of God. They
look upon the doftrine of the Trinity as a point not
neceffary to falvation ; and many of them hold there
is no precept in Tcripture by which we are enjoined
f 5 P to
3
ARM ( 426 ) A R N
to adore the Holy Ghoft; and that Jefus is not equal
to God the Father.
ARMIRO, a town of European Turky, in the province
ofTheffaly, fituated in 230 30/ E. long.
ARMOIS1N, a filk fluff, or kind of taffety, manufac¬
tured in the E. Indies, at Lyons in France, and Lucca
in Italy. That of the Indies is flighter than thofe
made in Euiope
ARMONIAC, or Ammoniac, a volatile fait, of which
there are two kinds, ancient and modern. The ancient
fort, defcribed by Pliny and Diofcorides, was a native
fait, generated in thofe large inns or caravanferas, where
the croud of pilgrims, coming from the temple of Jupi¬
ter AmiAon, ufed to lodge; who, in thofe parts, travel¬
ing upon camels, and thofe creatures when in Cyrene,
a province of Egypt, where that celebrated temple
ft cod, urining in the {tables, or, fay fome, in the
parched fands, out of this urine, which is remarkably
ftrong, arofe a kind of fait, denominated fometimes,
f rom the temple. Ammoniac, and fometimes, from the
country, Cyreniac. Since the ceffation of thefe pil¬
grimages, no more of this fait is produced there; and,
fYdm this deficiency, fome fufpeA there was never any
Inch thing : But this fufpicion is removed, by the large
quantities of a fait, nearly of the fame nature, thrown
out by mount A£tna. The characters of the ancient
fal armoniac are, that it cools water, turns, aqua fortis
• into aqua regia, and confequently diffolves gold.
r\ he modern fal armoniac is entirely factitious, 'and
made in Egypt; where feveral long-necked glafs bot¬
tles, being filled with foot, a little fea-falt, and the
urine of cattle, and having their mouth luted with a
piece of wet cotton, are placed over an oven or fur¬
nace, contrived for the purpofe, in a thick bed of
allies, nothing but the necks appearing, and kept there
two days and a night, with a continual ftrong fire.
The fteam fwells up the cotton, and forms a pafte at
the vent-hole, hindering the falts from evaporating ;
which, being confined, ftick to the top of the bottle,
and are, upon breaking it, taken out in thofe large
cakes, which they fend to England. Only foot ex¬
haled from dung, is the proper ingredient in this pre¬
paration ; and the dung of camels affords the ftrongeft
and beft. See Gbemistr.y.
ARMORI AL, fomething relating to arms, or coats of
arms. See. Arms.
ARMORY, a warehoufe of arms, or. a place where the
military habiliments are kept, to be ready for ufe.
Armory is alfo a branch of the fcience ofheraldry, con-
fifting in the knowledge of coats of arms, as to their
blazons and various intendments. See Heraldry.
ARMOUR denotes fuch habiliments, as ferve to defend
the body,from wounds, efpecially of darts, a fword,
a. lance, <bc. A complete fuk of armour formerly
confifted of a helmet, a Ihield, a cuiraffe, a, coat of
mail, a gantlet, fee. all now laid afide.
ARMOURER, a perfon who makes or deals in arms
and armour.
ARMS of courtefy, or parade, were lances not (hod,
fwords without edge or point, fee. ufed in the an-
cknt tcuiaaiocLts. Sec TauRNAM-EtvT.
Pafs ^Arms, a kind of combat, when anciently two
or more cava
all attacks.
Arms yarmor
upon (hields.
ers undertook to defend a pafs again!!
\ heraldry, marks of honour borne
, banners, and coats, in order to diftin-
guifh ftates, families, and perfons. See Heraldry.
Charged are fuch a$ retain their ancient integri¬
ty, with the addition of fome new honourable bear¬
ing.
Canting, or vocal Arms, thofe in which there are fame
figures alluding to the name of the family.
Full, or entire Arms, luch as are not conformable to
the rules of heraldry.
Arms, in falconry, the legs of a hawk from the^high
to the foot.
ARMUYDEN, a fea-port town of the ifiand of Zet-
land? fituated at the mouth of the canal of Middle-
burg, in 20 35' E. long, and 510 30' N. lat.
ARMY, a large number of foldiers, confifting of horfe
and foot, completely armed, and provided with artil¬
lery, ammunition, provifions, fee. under the com¬
mand of one general, having lieutenant-generals, ma¬
jor-generals, brigadiers, and other officers under him.
An army is compofed of fquadrons and battalions, and
is ufually divided into three corps, and formed into
three lines ; the firft line is called the van-guard, the
fecond the main body, and the third the rear-guard,
or body of reserve. The middle of each line is pof-
feffed by the foot; the cavalry form the right and left
wing of each line ; and fometimes they place fqua¬
drons of horfe in the intervals between the battalions.
When the army is drawn up in order of battle, the
horfe are placed at five feet diftance from each other,
and the foot at three. In each line the battalions are
diftant from each other one hundred and eighty feet,
which is nearly equal to the extent of their front;
and the fame holds of the fquadrons, which are about
three hundred feet diftant, the extent of their own,
front. Thefe intervals are left for the fquadrons and
battalions of the fecond line to range themfelves a-
gainft the intervals of the firftj that both may more
readily march through thefe fpeces to the enemy : the
firft line is ufually three hundred feet diftant from the-
fecond, and the fecond from the third, that there may
be fufficient room to rally, when the fquadrons and
battalions are broken.
This is to be underftood of a land army only. A
naval, or fea army, is a number, of {hips of war, e-
quipped and manned with failors and mariners, under
the command of an admiral, with other inferior offi¬
cers under him. See Navy.
ARNAY-LE-DUC, a town of Burgundy in France, fi¬
tuated on. the river Arroux, in 40 E. long, and 47-
N. lat.
ARNHEIM, a large city of Guelderland, in the United
Netherlands, fituated on the river Lech, about 10
miles north of Nimeguen, in 50 yc/ E. long., and
520 N. lat.
ARNICA, in botany, a genus of the fyngenefia poly-
gamia fuperflua clafs. The receptacle of the arnica is -
naked j it has a fimple pappus; and the filaments are.
five,.
A R R ( 427 ) ART
five, without anthers. There are feven fpecies of ar¬
nica, all natives of Ethiopia, except the montana and
fcorpioides, which are found in Germany, The leaves
and root of the arnica have been efteemed a fpecific
in refolving coagulated blood ; but their operation is
fo violent, that they are but rarely ufed.
ARNO, a river of Italy, which, after watering Tuf-
cany, falls into the Mediterranean, below Pifa.
ARNOLDISTS, in church-hiftory, a feflary, fo call¬
ed from their leader Arnold of Breffe, who was a
great declaimer againft the wealth and vices of the
clergy; and who is alfo charged with preaching againft:
baptifm and the eucharift.
ARNOT, in botany, the Englilh name of the bunium.
See Bunium.
AROLEC, an American weight, equal to 25 of our
pounds.
AROMA philofiphorurn, denotes either faffron, or the
aroph of Paracelfus, as aroma germanicusn denotes
elecampane.
AROMATIC, an appellation given to fuch plants a*
yield a brilk fragrant fmell, and a warm talie, as all
kinds of fpices, <bc.
ARONA, a fortified town-of the Mlkneie, fituated on
the fouth-weft part of the lake Maggior, in 8° 50'
E. long, and 450 4c/ N. lat.
ARONCHES, a town of the province of Alentejo, in
Portugal, fituated in y° 3c/'W. long, and 390 N. lat.
ARO-ORCHIS, in botany. See Kempferia.
ARORNOS. See Jun ferus.
AROURA, a Grecian meafure of fifty feet. It was
more frequently ufed for a fquare-meafure of half the
plethorn. The Egyptian aroura was the fquare of
one hundred cubits.
ARQUATA, in ornithology, the trivial name of a fpe¬
cies of fcolopax. See Seot-oPAx.
ARRACHEE, in hen.ldry, a term applied to the re-
prefentations of plants torn up by the roots.
ARRACK. See Rack.
ARRAIGNMENT, inlaw, the arraigning or fetting a
thing in order, as a peribn is faid to arraign a writ of
novel diffeifin, who prepares and fits it for trial. It
is moft properly ufed to call a perfon to anfwer in form,
of law-upon an indictment, ere.
ARRAN, an ilknd of Scotland, fituated in the Frith of
Clyde, between Kintire and Cunningham.
ARRAS, a large fortified town of the French-Nether¬
lands, capital of the province of Artois, fituated in
2° jo/ E. long, and 50° 20' N. lat. It is from this
city that the tapeftfy called arraj hangings takes its
denomination.
Ar'RA s, or A raxes, is- abb the name of a river of
Georgia, which difchar.ges itfelf into the Cafpian
fea.
ARREST, in Englifh law, the apprehending and re-
ftraining a perfon, in order to oblige him to be obe¬
dient to the law.
Arrest of judgment, the affigr.ing juft reafons why
judgment fhould not pafs.
ARRESTMENT, in Scots law, fignifies the fecuring
of a criminal till trial, or till he find caution .to ft and
trial, in what are called bailable crimes. In civil
cafes, it fignifies either the detaining of grangers or
natives in meditatioAe fug*, till they find caution j i-
dicio ft fit, or the attaching the effeds of a ftranger in
oider to found jurifdidion. See Scots Law, tit. Jti-
rifdiiiion and Judges in general. But, in the moft ge¬
neral acceptation of the word, it denotes that diligence'
by which a creditor detains the goods or effeds of his
debtor in the hands of third parties till the debt due
to him be either paid hr fccured. See Scots Law,
tn. Arrefirnents and Poindings.
ARRESTO fafto fuper btnis, &c. a writ brought by a
denizen againft the goods of aliens found within this
kingdom, as a recompence for goods taken from him
in a foreign country.
ARRESTiS, in farriery, mangy tumours upon a horfe’s
hinder legs, between the ham and the paltern.
ARRIEREi, the hinder or pofterior part of any thing.
See Rear.
Arriere-^j;?, in the French cuftoms, is- a general pro¬
clamation, whereby the king fummons to the war ail
that hold of him, both his vaffals, / e. the noblefi’e,.
and the vafl’als of his vafials.-
Arriere fee, or fief, is a fee dependant on a fuperior '
one. Thefe fees commenced, when the dukes and
counts, rendering their governments hereditary in their
families, diftributed to their officers parts of the royal
domains, which they found in their refpedtive pro¬
vinces ; and even permitted thofe officers to gratify
' the foldiers under them in the fame manner.
ARROEi, an ifiand of Denmark, fityated in the Baltic
fea, in io° 15'E. long, and 55° ij'N. Jat.
ARRONDEE, in heraldry, a crofs, the arms of which
are compofed of fedfions of a circle, not oppofite to
each other, fo as to make-the arms bulge out thicker
in one part than another ; but the fedlions of each arm ■
lying the fame way, fo that the arm is every where of
an equal thicknefs, .and all of them terminating at the
edge of the efeutcheon like the plain crols.
ARSCHIN, in commerce, a long meafure ufed in China '
to meafure Huffs. Four arfehins make three yards of
London.
ARSCHOT, a town of the Auftrian Netherlands, fi¬
tuated about fourteen miles eaft of the city of Mech¬
lin, in 40 45' E. long, and 510 5' N. lat.
ARSENIC, a poifdnous mineral preparation, which is
either white, red, or yellow, prepared from the
flowers of cobalt; See Cobalt, anji Chemistry.
ARSENICAL Magnet, a preparation of white arfenic
with antimony and fulphur, faid to be a gentle cau-
ftic.
ARSENOTHELYS, the fame with hermaphrodite.
ARSIS and Thefts, in mufic. A point is laid to move .
arfin and thefin, which rifes in one part and falls irt i
another, and vice verfa.
ARSMART, in botany. See Persicaria.
ART, a fyftem of rules ferving .to facilitate the per¬
formance of certain addons.
Art is alfo an appellation, given to feveral fuperftitious ,
pradiices, as, St Anfelhm's art, St Paul's art, Ac.
Art and part, in Sects law. See Accessary.
AR.TED.IA> ,
ART ( 428 ) A R Z
ARTEDIA, in botany, a genus of the pentandriadi-
gynia clafs. The involucrum is pinnatifid ; the flof-
cuks of the diik are mafculine, and the fruit is rough.
There is only one fpecies, viz. the fquamata, a na¬
tive of Libanium.
ARTEMISIA, fouthernwood, in botany, a genus of
the fyngenefia polygaraia fuperilua clafs. The recep¬
tacle is either naked or a little downy ; it has no pap¬
pus ; the-calix is imbricated with roundifn fcaies;
and the corolla has no radii. There are 23 fpecies of
artemifia, only 4 of which are natives of Britain, viz.
tdie.campeftris, or field-fouthernwood ; the maritima,
or fea-wormwood ; the abfynthium, or common worm¬
wood ; and the vulgaris, or mugwort. The vulgaris,
or mugwort, is ufed both as a ppt-herb and as a me¬
dicine ; the leavss are principally celebrated as uterine
and antihyfteric. The leaves of the abiynthium are
chiefly ufed as a bitter or ftomachic.
ARTERIOTOMY, the opening an artery, with defign
to procure an evacuation of blood,
ARTERY, in anatomy, a conical tube or canal which
conveys the blood from the heart to all parts of the
body. See Anatomy, Part III.
ARTHRITIS, in medicine, the gout. See Gout,
and Medicine.
ARTHRODIA, in natural hiftory, a genus of imper-
feH crytlals, found always in complex mafles, and
forming long Angle pyramids, with very Ihort and
flender columns. See Chrystal.
Arthrodia, in anatomy, a fpecies of articulation,
wherein a flat head of one bone is received into a Ihal-
low focket of another.
ART1CHOAK, in botany. See Cinara.
ARTICLE, a claufe or condition of a contrafl, treaty,
<bc. It is alfo a fmall part or divifion of a dilcourle,
a book, or writing, fcc.
Article, in grammar, a particle in moft languages
that ferves to exprefs the feveral cafes and genders of
nouns, when the language has not different termina-
nations.to denote the different Hates and circumftances
of nouns. See Grammar.
ARTICULARIS fnsrbus. See Gout, and Medi¬
cine.
ARTICULATE founds are fuch founds as exprefs the
letters, fyllables, or words of any alphabet or lan¬
guage : fuch are formed by the human voice, and by
fome few birds, as parrots, <&c.
ARTICULATION, in anatomy, denotes the jun&ure
of two bones intended for motion.
ARTIFICER, a perfon wlr fe employment it is to ma-
nufadture any kind of commodity, as in iron, brafs,
wood, fuch. are fmiths, weavers, carpenters, fcc.
ARTIFICIAL, in a general fenfe, denotes fomething
made, falhioned, or produced by art, in contradiftinc-
•tion from the produftions of nature.
ARTILLER Y, large tire-arms, with their.appurtenances,
as cannons, mortars, bombs, petards, mufquets,
carabines, <b'c. See Cannon, Mortar,. Gun¬
nery.
Artillery-/^/the place in the rear of both lines
in the army, for encamping the artillery, which is
drawn up in lines, of which one is formed by the
guns; the ammunition-waggons make two-or three
lines, fixty paces behind the guns, and thirty dillant
from one another; the pontoons and tumbrils make
the laft line. The whole is furrounded with a rope
which forms the park; the gunners and matroffes en¬
camp on the flanks, and the bombardeers, pontoon-men,
and artiflcers, in the rear.
ArticleRY-/Aw/tt, a certain number of pieces of ord¬
nance, mounted on carriages, with all their furniture
fit for marching.
ArticleRY-c<?M/>rf»y, a band of infantry, confilling of
fix hundred men, making part of the militia or city-
guard of London.
ART1SCUS, in medicine. See Troche.
ARTOIS, a province of the French Netherlands, fitu-
ated between Flanders and Picardy.
ARVALES fratres, in Roman antiquity, a college of
twelve priefts, inllituted by Romulus, who himfelf
made one of the body: they alMed in the facrifices
, of the ambervalia, offered annually to Ceres and Bac¬
chus, for the profperity of the principal fruits of the
earth, viz. thole of corn and wine.
ARUBA, a fmall illand on the coaft of Terra Firma^
fubjeft to the Dutch, and fituated in 69° 30' W. long,
and 120 30' N.lat.
ARUM, in botany, a genus of the gynandria polyandria
clafs. There are 22 fpecies of arum, only one of
which, viz. the maculatum, or water-robin, is a na¬
tive of Britain. The root of the maculatum is a
powerful ftimulaHt and attenuant.
ARUNCUS, in botany, the trivial name of a fpecies of
fpiraea. See S p 1 r 2E a .
ARUNDEL, a town of Suffex, fituated on a river of
the fame name, in 3c/ W. long, and yo° 45' N. lat.
It gives the title of earl to the noble family of the
Howards, and fends two members to parliament.
ARUNDO, in botany, a genus of the triandria digynia
clafs. The cahx confifts of two valves, and the flofi-
cules are thick and downy. There are fix fpecies of
arundo, four of which are natives of Britain, viz.
the phragmitis, or common red-grafs; the calamogre-
llis, or branched red grafs; the epigejos, or frnall
red-grafs ; and the arenaria, or fea red-grafs.
ARUSPICES, or Haruspices, an order of priefthood
among the Romans, that pretended to foretel future
events by infpefling the entrails oFvidtims killed in fa- .
crifice; they were alfo confulted on occafion of por¬
tents and prodigies.
ARYTiENOlDES, in anatomy, the name of two car¬
tilages which, together with others, conftitute the
head of the larynx. It is alfo applied to fome mufcles.
of the larynx. See p. 300.
ARYTAiNOIDEUS, in anatomy, one of the mufcles
that dole the larynx. See p. 301.
ARYTHMUS, in medicine, the want of a jufi modula¬
tion in the pul fe. It is oppofed to eurythmus, a pulfe
modulated agreeably, to nature.
ARZILLA, a fea-port town of the empire of Morocco,
fituated about 15 miles fouth of Tangier, in 50 40 .
W. long, and 350 40' N. kt.
AS,
A S C (4
AS, in antiquity, a particular weight, confining of twelve
ounces, being the fame with libra, or the Roman
pound. It was alfo the name of a Roman coin, which
was of different matter and weight, according to the
, different ages of the commonwealth. It is alfo ufed
to fignffy an integer, divifible into twelve parts; from
which lad acceptation it fignified a whole inheritance.
ASAFOETIDA, in the materia medica, the concrete
juice of a large umbelliferous plant growing in Perfia.
This juice exfudes from wounds made in the root of
the plant, liquid and white like milk. When expofed
to the air, it turns of a browni/h colour, and gradu¬
ally acquires different degrees of confidence. It is
brought to us in large irregular maffes, compofed of
various little ftiining grains, which are partly whitifh,
partly reddifh, and partly of a violet colour. Thofe
maffes are accounted the bed which are clear, of a
pale reddifh colour, and variegated with a great num¬
ber of elegant white tears. This drug has a drong
foetid fmell like garlic, and a bitter, acrid, biting
tade. It is frequently ufed in hyderic and nervous
complaints, flatulent colics, and as a promoter of the
menfes. It is likewife an ingredient in the officinal
gum-pills, and feveral other compofitions.
ASA dulcif. See Benzoin.
ASAPH, or St Asaph, a city of Flintfhire in North
Wales, fituated about 20 miles N. W. of Cheder, in
30° 30/ W. long, and 530 i8/ N. lat,
-ASAPPES, or Azapes, in theTurkifh armies, a name
given to the auxiliary troops which they raife among
the Chridians under their dominion, and expofe to.the
fird fhock of the,enemy.
ASARABACCA, in botany. SeeAsARUM.
ASARINA, in botany, a fynonime of the chelone.
See Chelone.
ASARUM, in botany, a genus of the dodecandria mo-
nogynia clafs. The afarum is quinquifid, and reds
on the germen; it has no corolla. The fpecies s are
four, only one of v/hich, viz. the europaeum, is a
native of Britain. It is a ftrong dernutatory, and
. occafions great evacuations, both upwards and down¬
wards.
ASBESTOS, a fort of native fofiile done, which may
be fplit into threads and filaments, from one inch to
ten inches in length, very fine, brittle, yet fomewhat
tradable, filky, and of a greyifh colour, not unlike '
talc of Venice. It is almod infipid to the tade, in-
diffoluble in water, and endued with the wonderful
property of remaining unconfumed in the fire, which
only whitens it. But, notwithdanding the common
, -opinion, in two trials before the Royal Society, a
piece of cloth made of this done was found to lofe a
dram of its weight each time. Paper as well as
cloth has been made of it; and Pliny fays he had
feen napkins of it, which, being taken foul from the
table, were thrown into the fire, and better fcoureS
than if they had been waffled in water. This done
is found in many places of Afia and Europe ; particu¬
larly in the ifland of Anglefty in Wales, and in Aber-
deenfhire in Scotland.
ASCARIS, in zoology, a genus of infeds belonging to
Vox., I. No. 18. 3 j-
v) A S C
the order-of vermes intediha. The body of the af*
caris is cylindrical, filiform, and tapers at both ends.
The fpecies are two, viz. 1. The vermicularis is about
a quarter of an inch long, and is found in lakes, i 1
the roots of putrid plants, and very frequently in the
redum of children and horfes. 2. The lumbricoidcs
is about the fame length with the lumbricus terredns,
or common earth-worm, but it wants the protuberant
ring towards the middle of the body, the only mark
by which they Can properly be didinguiftitd. The
body of the lumbricoides is cylindrical, and fubulated
at each extremity ; but the tail is fomewhaf triangular.
The lumbricoides is the worm which is mod comnitn-
ly found in the human intedines. For the method of
expelling thefe two kiods of infeds, fee Medicine,
0/ 'worms.
ASCENDANTS, in law, are oppofed to defcendents in
in fucceflion ; i. e. when a father fucceeds his fon, or
an uncle his nephew, tic-, heritage is faid to afcend,
or go to afcendants.
ASCENDENS obliquus, the fame with the obliquus in-
ternus abdominis. See Anatomy, p. 192.
ASCENDING, in adronomy, is faid of fuch dars as
are rifing above the horizon in any parallel of the e-
quator.
"Ascending vc[fels, in anatomy, thofe which carry the
blood upwards, as the aorta afcendens.
ASCENSION, in adronomy, is either right or oblique.
Right afcenfion of the fun, or a dar, is that degree
of the equinodial, counted from the beginning of a-
ries, which rifes with the fun or dar in a right fphere.
Oblique.afcenfion is an arch of the equator intercepted
between the nrd point of aries, and that point of the
equator which rifes together with a dar in an oblique
fphere.
AscENSioN-r/rfjr, a fedival of the Chridian church,,
held ten days before Whitfuntide, in memory of
our Saviour’s -afcenfion into heaven after his refur-
redion.
Ascension-//7«»A an uninhabited ifland, lying almod
in the midway between Africa and Brazil, in
W. long, and 70 S. lat.
ASCENSIONAL difference^ the difference between the
right and oblique afcenfion of the fame point to the
furface of the fphere. See Astronomy.
ASCENT of bodies on inclined planes. See Me¬
chanics.
Ascent of -fluids. See Hydrostatics.
ASCETICS, in church-hidory, fuch Chridians in the
primitive church as enured themfelvcs'to great degrees
of ab'linence and fading, in order to fubdue their
paffons. v
ASCHAFFENBURG, a city of Germany, fituated on
the river Mayne, in the circle of the Lower Rhine,
about 20 miles ead of Frankfort, in 90 E. long, and
50° 15' N. lar.
ASCTDIA, a genus of infeds belonging to the order of
vermes mollufca. The body is cylindrical and Iheathy;
it has two apertures towards the top, the one a little
lower than the other. There are fix fpecies of this
infed, v/z. the papillofum, gelatinofum, inteftinalis,
5 quadridenta^a".
ASH . ( 4:
quadridentata, ruftica, and echinata, all inhabitants
of the ocean.
ASCII, among geographers, an appellation given to
thofe inhabitants of the earth who, at certain feafons of
the year, have no fliadow : fuch are all the inhabitants
of the torrid zone, when the fun is vertical to them.
ASCITES, in medicine, the dropfy. See Dropsy,
and Medicine.
ASCLEPIAD, in ancient poetry, a verfe compofed
of four feet, the firft of which is a fpondee, the
fecond a choriambus, and the two laft da&yls; or
of four feet and a casfura, the firft a fpondee, the fe¬
cond a daftyl, after which comes the caefura, then
the two da&yls, as,
Maecenas atavis edite regibus.
ASCLEPIAS, in botany, a genus of the pentandria
digynia clafs. The generic charafter is taken from
five oval, concave, horn-like ne&aria, which are found
in the flower. There are 18 fpecies of afclepias, none
of which grow wild in Britain. The root is ufed by
the French and German phyficians as afudorific, diu¬
retic, and emmenagogue; but it is not in ufe with us.
ASCODRUTfE, in church-hiftory, a fort of Gnoftics,
who placed all religion in knowledge; and, under pre¬
tence of fpiritual worftiip, would admit of no external
or corporeal fymbols whatever.
ASCOLI, a city in the marquifate of Ancona in Italy,
fituated on the river Tronto, in 150 E. long, and 42°'
5c/ N. lat. It is alfo a city of the kingdom of Na¬
ples, fituated in the province of Capitonata, in 160
3c/ E. long, and 410 N. lat.
ASCOLIA, in Grecian antiquity, a feftival celebrated
by the Athenian hulbandmen in honour of Bacchus,
to whom they facrificed a he-goat, becaufe that animal
deftroys the vines.
ASCUS, in natural hiftory, the pouch or bag of the 0-
poflitm. See Opossum.
ASCYRUM, in botany, a genus of the polyadelphia
polyandria clafs. The calix confifts of four leaves;
the corolla has four petals; the filaments are nume¬
rous, and divided into four bundles. The fpecies are
three, viz. the crux andreas, the hypericoides, and
the villofum, all natives of the Weft-Indies or A-
inerica.
ASELLUS, in zoology, the trivial name of a fpecies
of onifeus. See Oniscus.
ASH, in botany. See Fraxinus.
ASHBURTON, a town of Devonfhire, fituated about
twenty-two miles S. W. of Exeter, in 40 15' W.
long, and yo° op' N. lat.
ASHBY de la zouch, a market-town of Leicefter-
lhire,. in i.° 25' W. long, and 52° 40' N. lat..
ASHES, the earthy part of wood and other combu-
flibles, remaining after they are confumed by fire.
Thefe, if produced from a vegetable, are of a. white
colour and faltifti tafte, and, when boiled with fair
water, yield a lixivium of an acrimonious, alkaline,
fiery, urinous tafte. The afttes of all: vegetables are
vitrifiable, and are found to contain iron. See Agri¬
culture, and Chemistry.
ASHFORD, a market-town of Kent, fituated about
;0 ) A S I
12 miles S. W. of Canterbury, in 45' E. long, and
510 15' N. lat.
ASIA, one of the four great parts of the world, and
the fecond in order. It is bounded on the N. by the
Frozen Sea, on the E. by the Eaftern Ocean, which
is part of the South Sea, on the S. by the Indian Sea,
and on the W. by Europe and Africa. It is of larger
extent than any of the three parts in our continent.
Arts and fciences were early cultivated here; though
they are thought to have come originally from Egypt:
but all the confiderable religions now known had their
firft beginning in Afia; and there are (till a great num¬
ber of people who maintain their ancient tenets, which,
according to them, are a hundred thoufand years old.
They have one fort of religion in China, and another
in India, whofe priefts are the Brachmins; not to
mention the Jews, Chriftians, and Mahometans,
whofe beginnings are fufliciently known to all the
world. This was the feat of feveral ancient empires
or monarchies; fuch as that of the Aflyrians, Medes,
Perfians, and Greeks. It is 4740 miles in length
from the Dardanels on the W.^to the eaftern fhore of
Tartary; and 4380 in breadth from the moft fouthern
part of Malacca, to the moft northern cape of Nova
Zembla. It may be divided into ten great parts,
namely, Turky in Afia, Arabia, Perfia, the Mogul’s
empire, with the two peninfulas of India, Thibet,
China, and Corea; Great and Little Bocharia, with
Carazm, Little and Great Tartary, Siberia, and the
Iflands. The governments of Afia are generally mo¬
narchical; and Turky, Perfia, the Mogul’s Empire,
Thibet, and China, are fubjeft to Angle monarchs;
but the reft is divided among feveral fovereigns ; info-
much that there are reckoned feven emperors, and 30
kings, befides petty princes, and the rajas of India,
which are very numerous. With regard to the extent
of their religions, the Chriftian is but fmall in refpedt
of the Mahometan, which comprehends one third of
Afia; and the Pagan is near twice as much extended
as the Mahometan. Befide thefe, fome pretend there
is the natural religion, which has about as many fol¬
lowers as the Chriftian. The languages are fo many
and fo various, that it is impoflible to enumerate them ;
but the chief are the Turkifh, the Grecian,- the Ara¬
bic, the Chinefe, the Perfian. and the Old Indian.
In ftrort, every country and ifland has almoft a diftfnA
language. Befides the animals we' have in Europe,
there are lions,, leopards, tigers, camels, elephants,
rhinocerofes, and many others.
Leffer Asia, the fame with Natolia. SccNatolia.
ASILUS, or hornet-fly, a genus of infers belonging to
the order of infeifta diptera. It has two wings, a
horny, ftrait, two-valved beak. There are 17 fpecies
of this infect.
ASINUS, or Ass, in zoology, the name of a fpecies of
equus. See Eqyus.
ASIO, in ornithology, a fynonime of a fpecies of ftrix.
See Strix.
ASISIO, orAsiTio, a city of the pope’s territories in
Italy, fituated about 16 miles E. of Perugia, in 130
35'’ E.long. and 430 N. lat.
ASLANI,
ASP ( 4
ASLANI, in commerce, a filver coin, worth from nj
toisoafpers. SeeAsPER.
ASMER, a province of India, on this fide the Ganges.
ASPIS, in zoology, the trivial name of a fpecies of co¬
luber. See Coluber.
ASPALATHUS, or Rose-wood, in botany, a ge¬
nus of the diadelphia decandria clafs. The calix con-
fifts of five divifions; the pod is oval, and contains
two feeds. There are 19 fpecies, none of them na¬
tives of Britain.
ASPARAGUS, in botany, a genus of the hexandria
monogynia clafs. The corolla confifts of fix eredt di¬
vifions ; the three inferior petals are bent outwards;
the berry has three cells, and contains two feeds.
There are 14 fpecies of afparagus, only one of which,
viz. the officinalis, is a native of Britain. This fpe¬
cies is commonly ufed as food; but it is alfo fuppofed
to promote urine.
ASPECT, in altronomy, denotes the fituation of the
planets and ftars with refpedt to each other. See A-
STRONOMY.
ASPEN-TREE, in botany. See Populus.
ASPER, in grammar, an accent peculiar to the Greek
language, marked thus (‘), and importing, that the
letters over which it is placed ought to be ftrongly
afpirated, or pronounced as if an h were joined with
them.
Asper, in ichthyology, the trivial name of a fpecies of
perca. See Perca.
Asper, or Aspre, in commerce, a Turkiffi coin, three
of which make a rnedine, and worth fomething more
than our halfpenny.
ASPERA arteria, in anatomy, the fame with the wind- '
pipe or trachea. See Anatomy, p.281.
ASPERIFOLIATE, or Asperifolious, amongbota-
niftsj fuch plants as are rough-leaved, having their
leaves placed alternately on their flalksj and a mono-
petalous flower divided into five parts.
ASPERUGO, in botany* a genus of the pentandria mo¬
nogynia clafs. There are two fpecies, viz. the pro-
cumbens, or wild bugles* a native of Britain; and
the aegyptiaca, a native of Egypt.
ASPERULA, in botany, a genus of the tetrandria mo¬
nogynia clafs. The corolla is infundibuli orm, and
the capfule contains two globular feeds. There are
fix fpecies, of which the odorata, or wood-roof, and
the cynachica, or fquinancy-wort, are natives of Bri¬
tain.
ASPHALTUM, in natural hiftory, a folk!, dark, o-
paque, inflammable fobftance,-found in-Egypt about
the Dead Sea, and-in many places of Europe, in de¬
tached mafles of no regular ftruflure,-breaking eafily
in any direction, very light, fufible, and, after burning
frnne time with a greenilh white flame, leaving a white
refiduum of alhes. Dr HrHenumerates;three fpecies
of it, the firft being the bitumen judaicum, which is of
a difeutient quality, promotes the menilrual difeharge,
and enters as an ingredient into the Venice treacle.
See Bitumen.
ASPiHQDELUS, in-botany, a genus of the hexandria
i ) ASS
monogynia clafs. The calix is divided into fix parts ;
and the nedarium confifts of fix valves covering the
germen. There are three fpecies, viz. the buteus, a
native of Sicily; the filtulofis and ramofus, both na¬
tives of Spain, 6"c.
ASPHURELATA, in natural hiftory, are femi-metal-
lic foflils, fufible by fire, and not malleable in their
pureft ftate, being in their native ftate intimately mix¬
ed with fulphur and other adventitious matter, and re¬
duced to what are called ores.
Of this feries of foffils, there are only five bodies,
each of which makes a diftind genus; and thefe bo¬
dies are antimony, bifmuth, cobalt, zinc, or quicklil-
ver. See Chemistry.
ASPIRATE, in grammar, denotes words marked with
the fpiritus afper. See Asper,
ASPIRATION, among grammarians, is ufed to denote
the pronouncing a fyllable with forne vehemence.
ASPLENIUM, in botany, a genus of the cryptogamia
filices clafs. The parts of frudification are fituated in
the fmall fparfe line under the difle of the leaves.
There are 24 fpecies, five of which, viz. the fcolo-
pendrium or hart’s tongue, the ceterach or fpleen-
wort, the trichomanes or common maiden-hair, the
viride or green maiden-hair, are natives of Britain.
The ceterach. is recommended for promoting urine,
and as a pedoral,
ASPREDO, in ichthyology, the trivial name of a fpe¬
cies of filurus. SeeSiLURUs.
ASS, in zoology, is ranked as a fpecies of equus, or
horfe. See.Equus.
ASSAI, in mufic, fignifies quick; and, according to
others, that .the motion of the piece be kept in a mid¬
dle degree of quicknefs or flownefs. As, ajfai alle¬
gro, aJJ'ai prejlo. See Allegro, and Presto.
ASSARON* or Omer, a meafure of capacity, in ufe
among the Hebrews, containing five pints. It was
the meafure. of jnanna which God appointed for e-
very Ifraelite.
ASSASSIN* a perfon who kills another by attacking
him at fome difadvantage. It is alfo-meant of one
who hires himfelf to murder a perfon, in order to re¬
venge the quarrel of another.
ASSAULT, in law, a violent injury offered to a man’s
perfon, being of a higher nature than battery.
Assault, in the military art, a furious effort made to
carry a fortified poft,, camp, or fortrefs, wherein the
affailants do not fereen themfelves by any works:
while the affault continues, the batteries ceafe, ibr
fear of killing their own men.
ASSAY, Essay, or Say, in metallurgy, the trial of
the goodnefs and purity of metals. Hence,
ASSAYING is the art of finding how much pure metal
is . contained in any ore, or the proportion of the fe-
veral ingredients of any mixed, metal. See Che¬
mistry.
Assaying of weights an^l meafures, the examining the
common weights and meafures by the cleik of the
market.
Assaying, in mufic, a flourifiiing before one begins to
play j .
play; or the running divifions, to lead one into the
piece before us.
ASSAY-MASTER, an officer appointed by certain
corporations to make a juft affay of all gold ancf filver
brought to him, and to make a true report thereof.
ASSEMBLAGE, the uniting or joining of things to¬
gether; or the things themfelves fo united or joined.
It is alfo ufed, in a more general fenfe, for a colleftion
of various things fo difpofed and diverfified that the
whole produces fome agreeable effe<ft.
ASSESSOR, an inferior officer of juftice, appointed
chiefly to a.ffift the ordinary judge with his opinion and
advice.
Assessor is alfo one who afleffes, or fettles taxes and
other public dues.
ASSEVERATION, apofitive and vehement affirmation
of fomething.
ASSIDEANS, in Jewifli antiquity. See Has si-
deans.
ASS1ENTO, a Spaniffi word fignifying a farm, in com¬
merce, is ufed for a bargain between the king of
Spain and other powers, for importing negroes into
the Spanifli dominions in America, and particularly
to Buenos Ayres. The firft afliento was made by
the French Guinea company; and, by the treaty of
Utrecht, transferred to the Englifh, who were to fur-
niffi four thoufand eight hundred negroes annually.
ASSIGN, in common law, a perfon to whom a thing
is afligned or made over.
ASSIGNEE, in law, a perfon appointed by another
to do an a<ft, tranfad fome bufinefs, or enjoy a parti¬
cular commodity.
ASSIGNING, in a general fenfe, is the giving over a
right to another ; and in a fpecial fenfe is ufed to fet
forth and point at, as to aflign an error, to aflign falfe
judgment, to affign wafte ; in which cafes it muft
be (hewn wherein the error is committed, where
and how the judgment is unjuft, and where the wafte
is committed.
ASSIGNMENT, the transferring the intereft one has
in a leafe, or other thing, to another perfon.
ASSIMILATION, in phyfics, is that motion by which
bodies convert other bodies related to them, or at
leaft fuch as are prepared to be converted, into their
own fubftance and nature. Thus, flame multiplies it-
felf upon oily bodies, and generates new flame ; air
upon water, and produces new air; and all the parts,
as well fimilar as organical, in vegetables and animals,
firft attraft with fome ele&ion or choice, nearly the
fame common or not very different juices for aliment,
and afterwards aflimilate or convert them to their
own nature.
ASSIS, in natural hiftory, a term ufed to denote opi¬
um, or the powder of hempfeed, which being form¬
ed into boluffes is fwallowed by the Egyptians, who
are thereby intoxicated.
ASSISER, or Assizer, of 'weighs and meafures, an
officer who has the overfight of thofe things. See
Clerk of the market.
ASSIZE, in law. See Jury.
ASSOCIATION of ideas, is where two or more ideas
) AST
conftantly and immediately follow one another, fo that
the one Ihall almoft infallibly produce the other. See
Metaphysics.
ASSOILZIE, in law, to abfolve, or free.
ASSONANCE, in rhetoric or poetry, is where the
words of a phrafe or verfe have nearly the fame
found or termination, but make no proper rhyme.
ASSOS, a fea-port town of Natolia, fituated about
twelve miles fouth-eaft of Troas, in 270 30' E. long,
and 38° 30' N. lat.
ASSUMPSIT, a voluntary or verbal promife, whereby
a perfon affumes, or takes upon him to perform or pay
any thing to another.
ASSUMPTION, a feftival in the Romifn church, in
, honour of the miraculous afeent of the Virgin Mary
into heaven : the Greek church, who alfo obierve this
feftival, celebrate it on the fifteenth of Auguft with
great ceremony.
Assumption, in logic, is the minor or fecond propofi-
tion in a categorical fyllogifm.
Assumption is alfo ufed for a confequence drawn
from the propofitions whereof an argument is com-
pofed.
Assumption, in geography, a city of S. America, fi¬
tuated near the mouth of the river Plata, and on the
oppofite ftiore to Buenos Ayres, in 6o° W. long, and
34° S. lat.
ASSUMPTIVE arms, in heraldry, are fuch as a perfon
has a right to affume, with the approbation of his fo-
vereign, and of the heralds: Thus, if a perfqn, whq
has no right by blood, and has no coat of arms, Ihall
captivate, in any lawful war, any gentleman, noble¬
man, or prince, he is, in that cafe, intitled to bear
the fhield of that prifoner, and enjoy it to him and
'his heirs for ever. ,
ASSURANCE, or Insurance, in commerce. See
Insurance.
ASSUROR, a merchant, or other perfon, who makes
out a policy of affurance, and thereby infures a Ihip,
houfe, or the like.
ASSYRIA, an ancient empire of Afia, comprehending
the modern provinces of Curdiftan, Diarbec, and I-
rac-arabic.
ASSYTH, or Assythment, in Sco.ts law, fignifies
an indemnification made to an injured party. . See
Scots Law, tit. Crimes.
ASTER, in botany, a genus of the fyngenefia polyga-
mia fuperflua clafs. The receptacle is naked; the
pappus is Ample; the rays of the corolla are ten ; and
the calix is imbricated. The fpecies are thirty-fix,
only one of which, viz. the tripolium, or fea-ftar-
wort, is a native of Britain.
ASTERABAT, a city of Perfia, capital of a province
of the fame name, fituated on the fouthern fliore of the
Cafpian fea, in 540 E.long. and 370 3c/ N. lat. .
ASTERIA, in natural hiftory, a beautiful pellucid gem
of variable colours, as viewed in different lights ;
called alfo oculus cati, or cat's eye. The variable co¬
lours, which are a pale brown and white, feem to be
lodged deep in the ftone, and fhift about as it is moT
ved. It is nearly allied to the opals; from which,
however,
AST ( 433 ) AST
however, it is diftinguiflied by its colour and fuperior
hardnefs.
Asteria is alfo the name of an extraneous fo/Kl, call¬
ed in Englilh theJlar-Jione. See Star-stone,
ASTERIAS, or Star-fish, in zoology, a genus of
infedts of the order of vermes molufca. The body is
depreffed, with a hard cruft, and prickly tentacula:
The mouth is in the centre, and has five valves. There
are lixteen fpecies of afterias, all found in different
feas.
ASTERISCUS, in botany, a fynonime of the anthe-
mis. See Anthemis.
ASTERISK, a mark in form of a ftar, *, placed over a
word or fentence, to refer the reader to the margin,
or elfewhere, for a quotation, explanation, or the
like.
ASTEROCEPHALUS, in botany. See Scabiosa.
ASTEROIDES, in botany. See Buphthalmum.
ASTEROPODIUM, a kind of extraneous foflil, of
the fame fubftance with the afteriae, or ftar-ftones, to
which they ferve as a bafe. See Star-stone.
ASTEROPTERUS, in botany, a fynonime of the af¬
ter. See Aster.
ASTHMA, in medicine, a painful, difficult, and labo¬
rious refpiration. See Medicine.
ASTI, a city ofPeidmont, in Italy, fituated upon the'
river Panaro, about thirty miles eaft of Turin, in 8°
I5/ E. long, and 440 40 N. lat,
ASTORGA, a city of the province of Leon, in Spain,
fituated upon the river Inerto, about thirty miles
fouth-weft of Leon, in 6° 20' W. long, and 420 20
N. lat.
ASTOUR, in commerce, a term in the E. Indies, for
what in England we call difcount. See Discount.
ASTRACAN, a city of Afiatic Ruflia, and capital of
a kingdom of the fame name. It is fituated on the
eaftern fhore of the river Wolga, about eighty miles
north of the Cafpian fea, in 520 E. long, and 47°
N. lat.
ASTRAGAL, in architecture, a little round moulding,
in form of a ring, ferving as an ornament at the tops
and bottoms of columns. See Architecture.
Astragal, in gunnery, a round moulding encompaffing
a cannon, about half a foot from its mouth.
ASTRAGALOIDES, in botany, a fynonime of the
phaca. See Phaca.
ASTRAGALUS, in botany, a genus of the diadelphia
decandria clafs. The pod is gibbous and bilocular.
There are thirty-nine fpecies of aftragalus, of which
two, viz. the glycyphyllus, or wild liquorice, and
the arenarius, or purple mountain milk-work, are na¬
tives of Britain.
Astragalus, in anatomy. See p. 185.
ASTRANTIA, in botany, a genus of the pentandria
digynia clafs. The involucrum is lanceolated, open,
equal, and coloured. The fpecies are two, viz. the
major and minor, both natives of the Alps.
ASTRARIUS bares, in law, is where an anceftor by
conveyance has fettled his heir apparent and family
in a houfe in his life-time.
ASTREA, in aftronomy, the fame with virgo. See
Virgo, and Astronomy.
ASTRENIUM, in botany, a genus of the dicecia pen¬
tandria clafs. There is but one fpecies, a native of
America.
ASTRICTION, in law. SccThirlage.
Astriction, among phyficians, denotes the operation
of aftringent medicines. See the next article.
ASTRINGENTS, in materia medica, fubftances di-
ftinguiffied by a rough auftere tafte, and changing fo-
lutions of iron, efpecially thofe made in the vitriolic
acid, into a dark purple or black colour; fuch are
galls, tormentil root, biftort root, balaullines, terra
japanica, acacia, <fac. Aftringents yield their virtues
by infufion both to water and vinous fpirits, but gene¬
rally in greateft perfection to the former. The me¬
dical effects of aftringents are, to conftringe the fibres,
and incraffate or lightly thicken the juices. Their
more experienced ufe is in diforders proceeding from
a debility or flaccid ftate of the folids ; in haemor¬
rhages from a thinnefs of the blood, laxity, or rup¬
ture of ,the veffels; in preternatural difcharges of 0-
ther kinds, after the offending matter has been duly
corrected or evacuated; and in external relaxations.
ASTROGNOSIA, the fcience of the fixed ftars, or
the knowlege of their names, conftellations, magni¬
tudes, dr.
ASTROITES, or Star stone, in natural-hiftory, is
fo called on account of its refemblance to a ftar. See
Star-stone.
ASTROLABE, the name for a ftereographic projection
of the fphere, either upon the plane of the equator,
the eye being fuppofed to be in the pole of the world ;
or upon the plane of the meridian, when the eye is
fuppofed in the point of the interfeCIion of the equi-
noxial and horizon.
Astrolabe is alfo an inftrument for taking the altitude
of the fun or ftars at fea. See Astronomy.
Astrolabe, among the ancients, was the-fame as our
armillary fphere.
ASTROLOGY, a conjectural fcience, which teaches
to judge of the effeCts and influences of the ftars, and
to foretel future events by the fituation and different
afpeCts of the heavenly bodies. This fcience has long
ago become a juft fubjeCt of contempt and ridicule.
ASTRONOMICALS, a name fometimes given to fex-
agefimal fractions. See Arithmetic, Of jixagefi-
nalx.
Vol. I. Numb. 19.
3
•5 R t
ASTRO-
C 434 )
ASTRO
ASTRONOMY is the fcience which treats of the na¬
ture and properties of the heavenly bodies.
Chap. I. Of Astronomy in general.
By aftronomy we difcover that the earth is at fo great
a diftance from the fun, that if feen from thence it would
appear no bigger than a point, although its circumference is
known to be 25,020 miles. Yet that diftance is fo fmall,
compared with the earth’s diftance from the fixed ftars,
that* if the orbit in which the earth moves round the fun
were folid, and feen from the neareftftar, it would like-
wife appear no bigger than a point, although it is at
Jeaft 162 millions of miles in diameter. For the earth, in
going round the fun, is 162 millions of miles nearer to
fome of the ftars at one time of the year than at another;
and yet their apparent magnitudes, fituations, and di-
ftances from one another ftill remain the fame ; and a te-
lefcope which magnifies above 290 times does not fenfi-
bly magnify them ; which proves them to be at leaft 400
thoufands times farther from us than we are from the
fun.
It is not to be imagined that all the ftars are placed in
one concave furface, fo as to be equally diftant from us;
but that they are fcattered at immenfe diftances from one
another through unlimited fpace. So that there may be
as great a diftance between any two neighbouring, ftars,
as between our fun and thofe which are neareft to him.
Therefore an obferver, who is neareft any fixed ftar,
will look upon it alone as a real fun; and confider the reft
as fo many fhining points, placed at equal diftances from
him in the firmament.
By the help of telefcopes we difcover thoufands of
ffors which are invifible to the naked eye ; and the better
our glafles are, ftill the more become vifible ; fo that no
limits can be fet either to their number or their diftances.
The fun appears very bright and large in comparifon
of the fixed ftars, becaufe we keep conftantly near the
fun, in comparifon of our immenfe diftance from the ftars.
For a fpediator, placed as near to any ftar as we are to
the fun, would fee that ftar a body as large and bright
as the fun .appears to us: and a fpeftator, as far diftant
from the, fun as we are from the ftars, would fee the fun
as fmall as. we fee a ftar, diverted of all its circumvolving
planets; and would reckon it one of the ftars in numbring
them.
The ftars, being at fuch immenfe diftances from the fun,
cannot poffibly receive from him fo ftrong a light asnhey
feem to have; nor, any brightnefs fufficient to make them
vilible to us. For the fun’s rays muft be fo fcattered and
diffipated, before they reach, fuch remote . objects, that
N O M Y.
they can never be tranfmitted back to our eyes, fo as, to
render thefe objects vifible by reflexion. The ftars there¬
fore ftiine with their own native and unborrowed luftre,
as the fun does,; and fince each particular ftar, as well
as the fun, is confined to a particular portion of fpace,,
it is plain that the ftars are of the fame nature with the
fun.
It is noways probable that the Almighty, who always
afts with infinite wifdom, and does nothing in vain, ftiould
create fo many glorious funs, fit for fo many important
purpofes, and place them at fuch diftances from one an¬
other, without proper objefls near enough to be benefited
by their influences. Whoever imagines they were cre¬
ated only to give a faint glimmering light to the inhabi¬
tants of this globe, muft have a very fuperficial know-
lege of aftronomy, and a mean opinion of the Divine
Wifdom : fince, by an infinitely lefs exertion of creating
power, the Deity could have given our earth much more
light by one fingle additional moon.
Inftead then of one fun and one world only in, the uni-
verfe, aftronomy difcovers to us fuch an inconceivable
number of funs, fyftems, and worlds, difperfed through
boundlefs fpace, that if our fun, with all the planets,,
moons, and comets belonging to it, were annihilated,
they would be no more miffed, by an eye that could
take in the whole creation, than a grain of fand from the
fea-ftiore: The fpace they poflefs being comparatively
fo fmall, that it would fcarce be a fenfible blank in the
univerfe, although Saturn, the outermoft of our planets,
revolves about the fun in an orbit of 4884 millions of miles
in circumference, and fome of our comets make excurfions
upwards of ten thoufand millions of miles beyond Sa¬
turn’s orbit; and yet, at that amazing diftance, they are
incomparably nearer to.; the fun than to any of the ftars;
as is evident from their keeping clear of the attractive
power of all the ftars, and returning periodically by vir¬
tue of the fun’s attra&ion.
From what we know of our own fyftem, it may be
reafonably concluded, that all the reft are with equal
wifdom contrived, fituated, and provided with accom¬
modations for rational inhabitants. Let us therefore
take a furvey of the fyftem to which we belong; the only
one acceflible to us ; and from thence we (hail be the bet¬
ter enabled to judge of the nature and end of the other
fyftems of the univerfe. For although there is almoft
an infinite variety in the parts of the creation which we
have opportunities of examining, yet there is a general
analogy running through, and'connecting all the parts in¬
to one great and univerfal fyftem.
To an attentive confiderer, it will appear highly pro¬
bable, that the planets of our fyftem, together with
their, attendants called fatellites or moons, are much of
the.
ASTRO
the fame nature with our earth, and deftined for the
like purpofes. For they are folid opaque globes, capa¬
ble of fupporting animals and vegetable. Some of them
are larger, fome lefs, and fome much about the lize of
our earth. They all circulate round the fun, as the
earth does, in afhorter or longer time, according to their
refpe&ive diftances from him; and have, where it would
not be inconvenient, regular returns of fummer and win¬
ter, fpring and autumn. They have warmer and cold-
er climates, as the various produdlions of our earth re¬
quire : And, in fuch as afford a polfibility of difcovering
k, we obferve a regular motion round their axes like
that of our earth, caufing an alternate return of day
and night; which is neceffary for labour, reft, and ve-
getation* and that all parts of their furfaces may be
expofed to the rays of the fun.
Such of the planets as are fartheft from the fun, and
therefore enjoy lead of his light,, have that deficiency
made up by feveral moons, which conflantly accompany
and revolve about them, as our moon revolves-about the
earth. The remoteft planet has, over and above, a
broad ring encompaffing it; which like a lucid zone in
the heavens reflects the fun’s light very copioufly on that
planet; fo that if the remoter planets have the fun’s
light fainter by day than, we, they have an addition
made to it morning and. evening by one or more of their
moons, and a greater quantity of light in the night-time.
Oh the furface of the moon, becaufe it is nearer us
than any other of the celeftial bodies are, we difcover a
nearer refemblartce of our earth. For, by the affiftance
of telefcopes, we obferve the moon to he full of high
mountains, large valleys, and deep cavities. Thefe li-
milarities leave us no room to doubt, but that all the
planets and moons in the fyffem are defigned. as commo¬
dious habitations for oreatures endued with capacities of
Showing and adoring their beneficent, Creator.
Since the fixed ftars are prodigious fpheres of fire like
our fun, and at inconceivable dihances from one another
as well as from us, it is reafonable to conclude they are
made for the fame purpofes that the fun is ; each to be¬
llow light, heat, and vegetation, on a certain number of
inhabited planets, kept by gravitation within- the fphere
of its adlivity.
Ghap. II. Of the Solar System.
The planets and comets which:move round the fun as
their centre, conftitute the Solar Syftem. Thole planets
which are near the fun not only finiih their circuits foon-
er, but likewife move Taller in their, relpedlive orbits,
than thole which' are- more remote from him. Their
motions are all performed from well to call, in orbits
nearly circular. Their names, didances., bulks, and
periodical revolutions, are as follow.
The Sun an immenfe globe of fire, is placed near
the- common centre., or rather-in the lower focus, of.the
orbits of all the planets and comets; and turns round his
axis in 25 days <$ hours, as is evident by the motion of
fpots feen on his furface. . His diameter is computed to ;
be 7-63,000 miles; and, by the various attra&ioas of the .
N O M Y. 435
circumvolving planets, he is agitated by a fmall motion
round the centre of gravity of the fyrtem. All the pla¬
nets, as feen from him, move the fame way, and ac¬
cording to the order of ligns in the graduated circle
CV? ^ H 25, ire. Plate XL. fig. 2. which repre-
fents the great ecliptic in the heavens: But, as feen
from any one planet, the rell appear fometimes to go
backward, fometimes forward, and fometimes to Hand
Hill; not in circles nor ellipfes, but in looped curves
which never return into themfelves. The comets come
from all parts of the heavens, and move in all forts of
diredtions.
The axis of a planet is a line conceived to be drawn
through its centre, about which it revolves as on a real
axis. The extremities of this line, terminating in op-
pofite points of the planet’s furface, are called its poles.
That which points towards the northern part of the hea¬
vens, is called the north pole; and the other, pointing
towards the fouthern part, is called the fouth pole. A
bowl whirled from one’s hand into the open air turns
round fuch a line within itfelf, whilft it- moves forward ;
and fuch are the lines we mean, when we fpeak of the
axes of the heavenly bodies.
Let us fuppofe the earth’s orbit to be a thin, even, fo¬
lid plane ; cutting the fun through the centre, and ex¬
tended out as far as the flarry heavens, where it will
mark the great-circle called the ecliptic. This circle we
fuppofe to be divided into 12 equal parts, called ftgns \
each iign into 30 equal parts, called degrees’, each de¬
gree into 60 equal parts, called minutes ; and every mi¬
nute into 60 equal parts, called feconds : So that a fe-
cond is the 60th part of a minute; a minute the 60th
part of a degree; and a degree the 360th part of a cir¬
cle, or 30th part of a fign. The planes of the orbits of
all the other planets likewife cut the fun in halves ; but,
extended to the heavens, form circles different from one
another, and from the ecliptic; one half of each being
on the north fide, and the other on the fouth fide of it.
Confequently the orbit of each planet croffes the ecliptic
in two oppplite points, which are called the planet’s
nodes. Thefe nodes are all in different parts of the e-
cliptic; and therefore, if the planetary tracks remained
vifible in the heavens, they would in fome meafure re-
femble the different ruts of waggon-wheels crofling one
another in different parts, but never going far afunder.
That node, or interfe&ioiv of the orbit of any planet
with the earth’s orbit, from which the planet afeends
northward above the ecliptic, is-called thz afeending
node of the planet; and the other, which is diretfly op-
polite thereto, is called its defending node. Saturn’s
afeending node is in 21 deg. 13 min. of Cancer 05, Ju¬
piter’s in 7 deg. 29 min. of the fame fign, Mars’s in
17 deg. 17 min. of Taurus V, Venus’s in 13 deg. 59
min. of Gemini u, and Mercury’s in 14 deg. 43 min.
of Taurus. Here we confider the earth’s orbit as the
flandard, and the orbits of all the other planets as ob¬
lique to it.
When-we fpeak of the planets orbits, all that is meant
is their paths through the open and unrefifting fpace in
which they move, and are kept in, by the attraftive
power of the fun, and the projeftile force impreffed up-
43« ASTRO
on them at firft; between which power and force there
is fo exadt an adjuftment, that they continue in the fame
tracks without any folid orbits to confine them.
Mercury, the neareft planet to the fun, goes round
him (as in a circle marked Plate XXXIX. fig. i.) in
87 days 23 hours of our time nearly; which is the length
of his year. But, being feldom feen, and no fpots ap¬
pearing on his furface or difk, the time of his rotation
on his axis, or the length of his days and nights, is as
yet unknown. His diftance from the fun is computed ta
be 32 millions of miles, and his diameter 2600. In
his courfe round the fun, he moves at the rate of 95
thoufand miles every hour. His light and heat from
the fun are almoft feven times as great as ours; and the
fun appears to him almoft feven times as large as to us.
The great heat on this planet is no argument againft its
being inhabited; fince the Almighty could as eafily fuit
the bodies and conftitutioos of its inhabitants to the heat
of their dwelling, as he has done ours to the tempera¬
ture of our earth. And it is very probable that the peo¬
ple there have fuch an opinion of us, as we have of the
inhabitants of Jupiter and Saturn ; namely, that we
muft be intolerably cold, and have very little light at fo
great a diftance from the fun.
This planet appears to us with all the various phafes
of the moon, when viewed at different times by a
good telefcope; excepting only that he never appears
quite full, becaufe his enlightened fide is never turned
diredUy towards us but when he is fo near the fun as to
be loft to our fight in its beams. And, as his enlight¬
ened fide is always toward the fun, it is plain that he
fhines not by any light of his own; for if he did, he
would conftantly appear round. That he moves about
the fun in an orbit within the earth’s orbit is alfo plain,
(as will be fliewn afterwards), becaufe he is never feen
oppofite to the fun, nor above 56 times the fun’s breadth
from his centre.
His orbit is inclined feven degrees to the ecliptic;
and that node from which he afcends northward above
the ecliptic is in the 14th degree of Taurus; the oppo¬
fite, in the 14th degree of Scorpio. The earth is in
thefe points on the 6th of November and 4th of May,
new ftyle; and when Mercury comes to either of his
nodes at his inferior .conjunftion about thefe times, he
will appear to pafs over the diflt or face of the fun, like
a dark round fpot; but in all other parts of his orbit
his conjunftions are invifible, becaufe he either goes a-
bove or below the fun.
Mr Whifton has given us an account of feveral pe¬
riods at which Mercury may be feen on the fun’s dilk,
viz. in the year 1782, Nov. 12th, at 3 h. 44 m. in the
afternoon ; 1786, May 4th, at 6 h. 57 m. in the fore¬
noon ; 1789, Dec. 6th, at 3 h. 55 min. in the after¬
noon; and 1799, May 7th, at 2 h. 34 m. in the after¬
noon. There will be feveral intermediate tranfits, but
none of them vifible to us.
Venus, the next planet in order, is computed to be
59 millions of miles from the fun ; and by moving at the
rate of 69 thoufand miles every hour in her orbit, (as
in the circle marked $), (he goes round the fun in 224
N O M Y.
days 17 hours of our time nearly. But though this ’b«f
the full length of her year, as fhe performs only 9^ re¬
volutions on her own axis in that time, her year confifts
only of 9^ days; fo that in her, every day and night
together is as long as 24J- days and nights with us. This
Odd quarter of a day in every year makes every fourth
year a leap-year to Venus ; as the like does to our
earth. Her diameter is 7906 miles; and by her diur¬
nal motion the inhabitants about her equator are carried
43 miles every hour, befides the 69,000 above men¬
tioned.
Her orbit includes that of Mercury within it; for at
her greateft elongation, or apparent diftance from the
fun, flte is 96 times his breadth from his centre; which
is almoft double of Mercury’s. Her orbit is included
by the earth’s; for if it were not, fhe might be feen as
often in oppofition to the fun, as fhe is in conjunction
with him; but fhe was never feen 90 degrees, or a
fourth part of a circle, from the fun.
When Venus appears weft of the fun, fhe rifes before
him in the morning, and is called the morning-Jiar •
when fhe appears eaft of the fun, fhe fhines in the even¬
ing after he fets, and is then called the evening-ftar;
being each in its turn for 290 days. It may perhaps be
furprifing at firft, that Venus fhould keep longer on the
eaft or weft of the fun, than the whole time of her pe¬
riod round him. But the difficulty vanifhes when we
confider, that the earth is all the while going round the
fun the fame way, though not fo quick as Venus; and
therefore her relative motion to the earth muft in every
period be as much flower than her abfolute motion in her
orbit, as the earth during that time advances forward in
the ecliptic, which is 220 degrees. To us fhe appears,
through a telefcope, in all the various ftiapes of the moon.
The axis of Venus is inclined 75 degrees to the axis
of her orbit; which is 5 i-y degrees more than our earth’s
axis is inclined to the axis of the ecliptic; and therefore
her feafons vary much more than ours do. The north
pole of her axis inclines toward the 20th degree of a-
quarius, our earth’s to the beginning of Cancer; confe-
quently the northern parts of Venus have fummer in the
figns where thofe of our earth have winter, and vice
verfa.
The artificial day at each pole of Venus is as long as
U2i natural days on our earth.
The fun’s greateft declination on each fide of her e-
quator amounts to 75 degrees; therefore her tropics are
only 15 degrees from her poles, and her polar circles as
far from her equator. Confequently, the tropics of Ve¬
nus are between her polar circles and her poles; contrary
to what thofe of our earth are.
As her annual revolution contains only 9^ of her days,
the fun will always appear to go through a whole fign,
or twelfth part of her orbit, in little more than three
quarters of her natural day, or neaily in 18J: of our
days and nights.
Becaufe her day is fo great a part of her year, the
fun changes his declination in one day fo much, that if
he pafles vertically, or diredtly over head of any given
place on the tropic, the next day he will be 26 degrees
from'
ASTRO
from it; and whatever place he paffes vertically over
when in the equator, one day’s revolution will remove
him a6|- degrees from it. So that the fun changes his
declination every day in Venus about 14 degrees more
at a mean rate, than he does in a quarter of a year on
our earth. This appears to be providentially ordered,
for preventing the too great effedts of the fun’s heat,
(which is twice as great on Venus as on the earth), fo
that he cannot Ihine perpendicularly on the fame places
for two days together; and by that means the heated
places have time to cool.
If the inhabitants about the north pole of Venus fix
their fouth or meridian line through that part of the hea¬
vens where the fun comes to his greateft height, or north
declination, and call thofe the eafi and weft points of
their horizon, which are 90 degrees on each fide from
that point where the horizon is cut by the meridian line,
thefe inhabitants will have the following remarkable
things.
The fun will rife 22t degrees north of the eaft; and
going on 112-r degrees, as meafured on the plane of the
horizon, he will crofs the meridian at an altitude of
124- degrees ; then making an entire revolution without
fetting, he will crofs it- again at an altitude of de¬
grees ; at the next revolution he will crofs the meridian
as he comes to his greateft height and declination, at the
altitude of 75 degrees; being then only 15 degrees from
the zenith, or that point of the heavens which is diredtly
over head; and thence he will defcend in the like fpiral
manner, croifing the meridian firft at the altitude of 484-
degrees; next at the altitude of 12^ degrees; and go¬
ing on thence 1124 degrees, he will fet 22^ degrees north
of the weft; fo that, after having been 4^ revolutions
above the horizon, he defcends below it to exhibit the
like appearances at the fouth pole.
At each pole, the fun continues half a year without
fetting in fummer, and as long without rifing in winter;.
confequently the polar inhabitants of Venus have only
one day and one night in the year, as it is at the'poles
of our earth. But the difference between the heat of
fummer and cold of winter, or of mid-day and mid¬
night, on Venus, is much greater than on the earth;
becaufe in Venus, as the fun is for half a year together
above the horizon of each pole in its turn, fo he is for a
confiderable part of that time near the zenith ; and du¬
ring the other half of the year always below the hori¬
zon, and for a great part of that time at leaft 70 degrees
from it. Whereas, at the poles of our earth, although
the fun is for half a year together above the horizon,
yet he never afcends above, nor defcends below it,
more than 234 degrees. When the fun is in the e-
equincxftial, or in that circle which divides the northern
half of the heavens from the fouthern, he is feen with
one half of his dilk above the horizon of the north
pole, and the other half above the horizon of the
fouth pole; fo that his centre is in the horizon of
both poles: and then defeending below the horizon of
one, he afcends gradually above that of the other.
Hence, in a year, each pole has one fpring, one harveft,
a fummer as long as them both, and a winter equal in
length to the other three feafons.
Von. I. No. 19.
N O M 437.
At the polar circles of Venus, the feafons are much,
the fame as at the equator, becaufe there are only 15 de¬
grees betwixt them; only the winters are not quite fo.
long, nor the fummers fo Ihort; but the four feafons
come twice round every year.
At Venus’s tropics, the fun continues for about fifteen,
of our weeks together without fetting in fummer, and
as long without rifing in winter. Whilft he is more than
15: degrees from the equator, he neither rifes to the in¬
habitants of the one tropic, nor fets to thofe of the o-.
ther; whereas, at our terreftrial tropics, he rifes and
fets every day of the year.
At Venus’s tropics, the feafons are much the fame as
at her poles; only the fummers are a little longer, and
the winters a little Ihorter.
At her equator, the days and nights are always of
the fame length, and yet the diurnal and nodturnal arches
are very different, efpecialiy when the fun’s declination
is about the greateft; for then his meridian altitude may.
fometimes be twice as great as his midnight depreflion,
and at other times the reverfe. When the fun is at his
greateft declination, either north or fouth, his rays are
as oblique at Venus’s equator, as they are at London on
the fhorteft day of winter. Therefore, at her equator
there are two winters, two fummers, two fprings, and
two autumns every year. But becaufe the fun flays for
fome time near the tropics, and pafles fo quickly over
the equator, every winter there will be almoft twice as
long as fummer; the four feafons returning twice in that
time, which confifts only of days.
Thofe parts of Venus which lie between the poles and
tropics, and between the tropics and polar circles, and
alfo between the polar circles and equator, partake more
or lefs of the phenomena of thefe circles as they are
more or lefs diftant from them.
From the quick change of the fun’s declination it hap¬
pens, that if he rifes due eaft on any day, lie will not
fet due weft on that day, as with us; for if the place
where he rifes due eaft be on the equator, he will fet on
that day almoft weft-north-weft, or about i84 degrees
north of the weft. But if the place be in 45 degrees
north latitude, then on the day that the fun rifes due
eaft he will fet north-weft by weft, or 33 degrees north
of the weft, and in 62 degrees north latitude. When
he rifes in the eaft, he fets not in that revolution, but
juft touches the horizon 10 degrees to the weft of the
north point, and afcends again, continuing for 34 revo¬
lutions above the horizon without fetting. Therefore,
no place has the forenoon and afternoon of the fame day
equally long, unlefs it be in the equator, or at the poles.
The fun’s altitude at noon, or at any other time of the
day, and his amplitude at rifing and fetting, being very
different at places on the fame parallel of latitude, ac-.
cording to the different longitudes of thofe places, the
longitude will be almoft as eafily found on Venus as the
latitude is found on the earth ; which is an advantage we
can never enjoy, becaufe the daily change, of the fun’s
declination is by much too fmall for that important pur-
pofe.
On this planet, where the fun croffes the equator in
any year, he will have 9 degrees of declination from that
f 5 S place
3
433 ASTRO
place on the fame day and hour next year, and will crofs
the equator 90 degrees farther to the weft; which makes
the time of the equinox a quarter of a day (or about fix
of our days) later every year. Hence, although the fpi-
ral in which the fun’s motion is performed, be of the
fame fort every year, yet it will not be the very fame,
becaufe the fun will not pafs vertically over the fame
places till four annual revolutions are finiilied.
Venus’s orbit is inclined 34- degrees to the earth’s;
and crofies it in the 14th degree of Gemini and of Sagit¬
tarius; and thesefore, when the earth is about thefe
points of the ecliptic at the time that Venus is in her in¬
ferior conjuroftion, ihe will appear like a fpot on the fun,
and afford a more certain method of finding the diftances
of all the planets from the fun, than any other yet known.
But thefe appearances happen very feldom. The firft
was ia the year 1639. The fecond in the year 1761,
June 6. In the morning of that day, when the fun rofe
at London, Venus had pafled both the external and in¬
ternal Contains. At 38 minutes 21 fecondspalt 7 o’clock,
(apparent time) at Greenwich, the Rev. Dr Blifs, aftro-
nomer royal, firft faw Venus on the fun; at which in¬
fant, the centre of Venus preceded the fun’s centre, by
6' 18".9 of right afcenfion, and was fouth of the fun’s
centre by i8/ 42,,.i of declination.—From that time to
the beginning of egrefs, the Dodtor made feveral obfer-
vations, both of the difference of right afcenfion and de¬
clination of the centres of the fun and Venus; and at
laft found the beginning of egrefs, or inftant of the in¬
ternal contaft of Venus with the fun’s limb, to be at 8
hoars u) minutes o feconds apparent time.—From the
Doctor’s own obfervations, and thofe which were made
at Shirburn by another gentleman, he has computed,
that the mean time at Greenwich of the eciiptical con-
jundtion of the fun and Venus was at 51 minutes 20 fe¬
conds after 5 o’clock in the morning; that the place of
the fun and Venus was Gemini 15° 36' 33,,; that the
geocentric latitude of Venus was 9* 44/,.9 fouth,—her
horary motion from the fun 3,.s7,,.i3 retrograde, and
the angle then formed by the axis of the equator and the
axis of the ecliptic was 6° 34//, decreafing hourly 1
minute of a degree.—By the mean of three good obfer¬
vations, the diameter of Venus on the fun was yS".
Mr Short made his obfervations at Savile-houfe, in
London, 30 feconds in time weft from Greenwich, in
prefence of his royal highnefs the duke of York, accom¬
panied by their toyal highneffes prince William, prince
Henry, and prince Frederick.:—He firft faw Venus on
the fun, through flying clouds, at 46 minutes 37 feconds
after 5 oVlock; and at 6 hours 15 minutes 12 feconds
he meafured the diameter of Venus 59^.8.—He after¬
ward found it to be when the Iky was more fa¬
vourable.—And, through a reflefting telefcope of two
feet focus', magnifying 140 times, he found the internal
contact of Venus with the fun’s limb to be at 8 hours 18
minutes 214 frconds, apparent time; which being redu¬
ced to the apparent time at Greenwich, was 8 hours 18
minutes ji-J feconds; fo that his time of feeing the corr-
ta<ft was 84 feconds fooner (in abfolute time) than the in¬
ftant of its being feen at Greenwich.
Mefirs Eilkott and Doliond obferved the internal con-
N O M Y.
ta<ft at Hackney; and their time of feeing it, reduced to
the time at Greenwich, was at 8 hours 18 minutes 56
feconds, which was 4 feconds fooner in abfolute time
than the contaft was feen at Greenwich.
Mr Canton in Spittle-Square, London, 4' n" weft
of Greenwich, (equal to :6 feconds 44 thirds of time),
meafured the fun’s diameter 31' 33" 24,,,> and the dia¬
meter of Venus on the fun 58 ; and, by obfervation,
found the apparent time of the internal contaft of Venus
with the fun’s limb to be at 8 hours 18 minutes 41 fe¬
conds ; which, by reduction, was only 2^ feconds (hott
of the time at the Royal Obfervatory at Greenwich.
The Reverend Mr Richard Haydon, at Lefkeard in
Cornwall, (16 minutes 10 feconds in time weft from
London, as ftated by Dr Bevis), obferved the internal
contaft to be at 8 hours o minutes 20 feconds, which,
by reduttion, was 8 hours 16 minutes 30 feconds at
Greenwich; fo that he mull have feen it 2 minutes 30
feconds fooner in abfolute time than it was feen at Green¬
wich ;—a difference by much too great to be occafioned
by the difference of parallaxes. But by a memorandum
of Mr Hayden’s fome years before, it appears that he
then fuppofed his weft longitude to be near two minutes
more; which brings his time to agree within half a mi¬
nute of the time at Greenwich; to which the parallaxes
will very nearly arifwer. '
At Stockholm Obfervatory, latitude 5:9° 2o'4 north,
and longitude 1 hour 12 minutes eaft from Greenwich,
the whole.of the tranfit was vifible: the total ingrefs was
obferved by Mr Wargentin to be at 3 hours 39 minutes
23 feconds in the morning, and the beginning of egrefs
at 9 hours 30 minutes 8 feconds ; fo that the whole du¬
ration between the two internal conta&s, as feen at that
place, was 5 hours 50 minutes 45 feconds.
At Torneo in Lapland, (1 hour 27 minutes 28 feconds
eaft of Paris), Mr Hellant, who is efteemed a very good
obferver, found the total ingrefs to be at 4 hours 3 mi¬
nutes 59 feconds, and the beginning of egrefs to be 9
hours 54 minutes 8 feconds.—So that the whole dura¬
tion between the two internal contacts was 5 hours. 50
minutes 9 feconds.
At Hernofand in Sweden, (latitude 6° 38' north, and
longitude 1 hour 2 minutes 12 feconds eaft of Paris),
Mr Gifter obferved the total ingrefs to be at 3 hours 38
minutes 26 feconds ; and the beginning of egrefs to be at
9 hours 29 minutes 21 feconds ;—the duration between
thefe two internal contadts 5 hours 50 minutes 56 feconds.
Mr De La Lande, at Paris, obferved the beginning
of egrefs to be at 8 hours 28 minutes 26 feconds appa¬
rent time.—But Mr Ferner (who was then at Conflans,
14% weft of the Roy d Obfervatory at Paris) obferved
the beginning of egrefs to be at 8 hours 28 minutes 29
feconds true time. The equation, or difference between
the true and apparent time, was 1 minute 54 feconds.—
The total ingrefs, being before the fun rofe, could not
be feen.
At Tobolfk in Siberia, Mr Chappe obferved the total
ingrefs to Be at 7 hours o minutes 28 feconds in the
morning, and the beginning of egrefs to be at 49 minutes
204 feconds after 12 at noon.—So that the whole dura¬
tion of tke traafit between the internal contafts was 9
hours
ASTRO
hours 48 minutes 52-J feconds, as feen at tlht-place;
•which was 2 minutes 3^ feconds lefs than as feen at Her-
nofand in Sweden.
At Madrafs, the Reverend Mr Hirft ohferved the total
ingrefs to be at 7 hours 47 minutes 55 feconds apparent
time in the morning, and the beginning of egrefs at 1
hour 39 minutes 38 feconds part noon.—The duration
between thefe two internal contadts was 5 hours 51 mi¬
nutes 43 feconds.
Profeffor Mathenci at Bologna obferved the beginning
of egrefs to be at 9 hours 4 minutes 58 feconds.
At Calcutta, (latitude 220 3c/ north, nearly 920 eaft
longitude from London), Mr William Magee obferved
the total ingrefs to be at 8 hours 20 minutes 58 feconds
in the morning, and the beginning of egrefs to be at 2
hours 11 minutes 34 feconds in the afternoon; the du¬
ration between the two internal contadts j hours 50 mi¬
nutes 36 feconds.
At the Cape of Gopd Hopd, (1 hour 13 minutes 35
feconds eall from Greenwich), Mr Mafon obferved the
beginning of egrefs to be at 9 hours 39 minutes 50 fe-
coods in the morning.
All thefe times are colledfed from the obfervers ac¬
counts, printed in the Philofophical Tranfadtions for the
years 1762 and 1763, in which there are feveral other
other accounts that are not tranfcribed.—The inliants of
Venus’s total exit from the fun are likewife mentioned,
but they are here left out, as not of any ufe for finding
the fun’s parallax.
Whoever compares thefe times of the internal contadfs,
as given in by different obfervers, will find fuch differ¬
ences among them, even thofe which were taken upon
the fame fpot, as will fhew, that the inffant of either
contadt could not be fo accurately perceived by the ob¬
fervers as Dr Halley thought it could ; -which probably
arifes from the difference of peoples eyes, and the dif¬
ferent magnifying powers of thofe telefcopes through
which the contadfs were feen.—If all the obfervers had
made ufe of equal magnifying powers, there can be no
doubt but that the times would have more nearly coinci^
ded; fince it is plain, that fuppofing all their eyes to be
equally quick and good, they whofe telefcopes magnified
mod would perceive the point of internal contadl fooneft,
and of the total exit lated.
Mr Short, in a paper publifhed in the Philofophical'
Tranfadiions, Vol. LII. Pait II. has taken an incredible
deal of pains in deducing the quantity of the fun’s pa¬
rallax, from the heft of tliofe obfervations which were
N O M Y. 439
made both in Britain and abroad; and finds it to have
been on the day of the tranfit when the fun was
very nearly at his greateft diltance from the earth ; and
confequently 8".65 when the fun is at his mean diflance
from the earth.
The log. fine (or tangent) of 8".6$ is 5.6219140,
which being fubtradfed from the radius 10.0000000,
leaves remaining the logarithm 4.3780860, whofe num¬
ber is 23882.84; which is the number of femidiameters
of the earth that the fun is diftant from it.—And this
lad number, 23882.84, being multiplied by 3985, the
number of Englifh miles contained in the earth’s femidi-
ameter, gives 95,173,117 miles from the earth’s mean
didance froth the fun.—But becaufe it is impoflible, from
the niced obfervations of the fun’s parallax, to be fure
of his true didance from the earth within 100 miles, we
(hall at prefent, for the fake of round numbers, date the
earth’s mean didance from the fun at 95,173,000 Englifli
miles.
And then, from the numbers and analogies in § 11. & 14.
of Mr Short’s dilfertation, we find the mean didances of
all the red of the planeits from the fun, in miles, to be as
follows.—Mercury’s diftance, 36,841,468 ; Venus’s di¬
dance, 68,891,486 ; Mars’s didance, 145,014,148; Ju¬
piter’s didance, 494,990,976; and Saturn’s didance,,
907,956,130.
The femidiameter of the earth’s annual orbit being e-
qual to the earth’s mean didance from the fun, viz,
95,173,000 miles, the whole diameter thereof is
190,346,000 miles. And fince the circuihference of a
circle is to its diameter as 355 is to 11 3, the circumfe¬
rence of the earth’s orbit is 597,989,646 miles.
And, as the earth deferibes this orbit in 365 days 6
hours (or in 8766 hours) it is plain that it travels at
the rate of 68,2 16.9 miles every hour, and confequent¬
ly 1136.9 miles every minute; fo that its velocity in its
orbit is at lead 142 times as great as the velocity of a
cannon-ball, fuppofing the ball to move through 8 miles
in a minute, which it is found to do very nearly: And at
this rate it would take 22 years 228 days for a cannon¬
ball to go from the earth to the fun.
On the 3d of June, in the year 1769, Venus again
paffed over the fun’s diik, in fuch a.manner, as to afford a
much eafier and better method of invedigating the fun’s
parallax than her tranfit in the year 1761. But as few
of the obfervations upon this tranfit have as yet been
made public, vve can only give the following, made by
different obfervers at London.
N. Mafkelyne,
M. Hitchins,
W. Hird,
J. Horfley,
,S. Dunn,
P. Dollond,
E* Nairne,
External
contact.
10 58
10 54
11 n
10 44
10 37
11 19
XI 30
| Thread of
Regular light com-
circumfe- pleated,
rences in ! the internal
contact. contadf.
h. ' " h. '• "f
7 28 31 7 29 23
7 28 4717 28 57
 17 29 18
7 28 15 7 29 28
7 29 28 7 29 48
 7. 29 20
 ^ 2 2cf 2.0
Telefcopes made
ufe of.
2 feet refledlor,
6 f. refledtor,,
2 f. refledfor,
10 f. achromatic,
34- f. achromatic,
34 f. achromatic,
2 f. refledlor*
Mag¬
nify¬
ing
power.
140
90
JS
5°
140
150
120:
Wham
44° A S 'T R O
• When Venus was. little more than half emerged into
the fun’s difk. Mr Mafkeiyne faw her whole circum¬
ference compleated, by means of a vivid, but narrow
and ill defined border of light, which^illuminated that
part of her circumference which was off- the fun, and o-
therwife not vifible. They all obferved the black pro¬
tuberance in the internal contaft. They likewife, after
the internal contaft, faw a luminous ring round the Bo¬
dy of Venus, about the thicknefs of half her femi-dia-
meter; it was brighteft towards Venus’s body, and gra¬
dually diminilhed in fplendor at greater dilhmee, but the
whole was exceflive white and faint.
Venus may have a fatelKte or moon, although.it
be undifeovered by us : which will not appear very fur-
piifing, if we conlider how inconveniently we are placed
from feeing it. For its enlightened fide can never be
fully turned towards us, but when Venus is beyond the
fun; and then, as Venus appears little bigger than an
ordinary ftarr her moon may be too fmall to be percei¬
ved at fuch a diftance. When Ihe is between us and the
fun, her full moon has its dark fide towards us ; and
then we cannot fee it any more than we can our own
moon at the time of change. When Venus is at her
greateft elongation, we have but one half of the enlighten¬
ed fide of hef full moon towards us ; and even then it
may be too far difiant to be feen by us.
The Earth is the next planet above Venus in the
fyftem. It is 82 millions of miles from the fun, and
goes round him (as in the circle ®) in 365 days 5 hours
49 minutes, from any equinox or foHKce to the fame
again; but from any fixed flat to the fame again, as
feen from the fun, in 365 days 6 hours and 9 minutes ;
the former being the length of the tropical year, and the
latter the length of the fyderial. It travels the rate of
58 thoufand miles every hour; which motion, though
120 times fwifter than that of a cannon-ball, is little
more than half as fwift as Mercury’s motion in his or¬
bit, The earth’s diameter is 7970 miles;1 and by turn¬
ing round its axis every 24 hours from weft to eaft, it
caufes an apparent diurnal motion of all the heavenly bo¬
dies from eaft to weft. By this rapid motion of the
earth on its axis, the inhabitants about the equator are
carried 1042 miles every hour, whilft thofe on the pa¬
rallel of London are carried only about 580, befides the
58 thoufand miles by the annual motion above mention¬
ed, which is common to all places whatever.
The earth’s axis makes an angle of 234 degrees with
the axis of its orbit, and keeps always the fame oblique
diredlion, inclining towards the fame fixed ftars through¬
out its annual courfe, which caufes the returns of fpring,
fummer, autumn, and winter; as will be explained af¬
terwards.
The earth is round like a globe; as appears, 1. By
its (hadow in eclipfes of the moon, which lhadow is al¬
ways bounded by a circular ring. 2. By our feeing the
mafts of a ftiip whilft the hull is hid by the convexity of
the water. 3. By its having been failed round by many
navigators. The hills take off no more from the round-
nefs of the earth in comparifon, than grains of duft do
from the roundnefs of a common globe.
The feas and unknown parts of the earth (by a mea-
N O M Y.
furement of the beft maps) contain 160 million 522 thoa-
fand and 26 fquare miles; the inhabited parts 38 mil¬
lion 990 thoufand 369 : Europe 4 million 456 thoufand
and 65 ; Afia, 10 million 768 thoufand 823; Africa,
9 million 654 thoufand 807 ; America, 14 million no
thouland 874. In all, 199 million 512 thoufand 595 ;
which is the number of fquare miles on the whole fur-
face of our globe.
The Moon is not a planet, but only a fatellite or at-
tendant-of the earth ; going round the earth from change
to change in 29 days 12 hours and 44 minutes; and round
the fun with it every year. The moon’s diameter is 2180
miles; and her diftance from the earth’s centre 240
thoufand. She goes round her orbit in 27 days y houis
43 minutes, moving about 2290 miles every hour; and
turns round her axis exatfly in the fame time that Ihe
goes round the earth, which is the reafon of her keep¬
ing always the fame fide towards us, and that her day
and night, taken together, is as long as our lunar month.
The moon is an opaque globe like the earth, and Ihines
only by refledting the light of the fun: Therefore whilft
that half of her which is toward the fun is enlightened,
the other half muft be dark and invifible; Hence, Ihe
difappears when ftie comes between us and the fun; be-
caufe her dark fide is then towards us. When Ihe is
gone a little way forward, we fee a little of her enlight¬
ened fide; which ftill encreafes to our view, as Ihe ad¬
vances forward, until Ihe comes to be oppofite the fun ;
and then her whole enlightened fide is towards the earth,
and Ihe appears with a round, illumined orb, which we
call the full moon ; her dark fide being then turned a-
way from the earth. From the full ftie feems to decreafe
gradually as fire goes through the other half of her
courfe; Ihewing us lefs and lefs of her enlightened fide
every day, till her next change or conjundtion with the
fun, and then ftie difappears as before.
This continual change of the moon’s phafes demon-
ftrates that ftie ftiines not by any light of her own; for
if flie did, being globular, we ftiould always fee her with
a round full orb like the fun. Her orbit is reprefented
in the fcheme by the little circle vt, upon the earth’s or-
bit Plate XXXIX. fig. 1. ; but it is drawn fifty times
too large in proportion to the earth’s; and yet is al-
moft too fmall to be feen in the diagram.
The moon has fcarce any diffejence of feafons; her
axis being almoft perpendicular to the ecliptic. What
is very Angular, one half of her has no darknefs at all ;
the earth conflantly affording it a ftrong light in the fun’s
abfence ; while the other half has a fortnight’s darknefs,
and a fortnight’s light by turns.
Our earth is a moon to the moon, waxing and waning
regularly, but appearing thirteen times as big, and af¬
fording her thirteen times as much light as ftie does to
us. When ftie changes to us, the earth appears full to
her; and when ftie is in her firll quarter to us, the earth
is in its third quarter to her,; and vice verfa.
But from one half of the moon, the earth is never
feen at all; from the middle of the other half, it is al¬
ways feen ovet head; turning round almoft thirty times
as quick as the moon does. From the circle which li¬
mits our view .of the moon, only one half of the earth’s
fide
ASTRO
fide next her is feen ; the other half being hid below the
horizon of all places on that circle. To her the earth
feems to be the largeft body in the univerfe, for it ap¬
pears thirteen times as large as flie does to us.
The moon has no atmofphere of any vifible denfity
furrounding her; for if (lie had, we could never fee her
edge fo well defined as it appears ; but there would be a
fort of a mill: or hazinefs around her, which would make
the ftars look fainter, when they are feen through it.
But obfervation proves, that the ftars which difappear
behind the moon retain their full luftre until they feem
to touch her very edge, and then they vaniflt in a mo¬
ment. The faint light which has been feen all around
the moon in total ecliples of the fun, has been obferved,
during the time of darknefs, to have its centre coincident
with the centre of the fun; and was therefore much
more likely to arife from the atmofphere of the fun than
from that of the moon; for if it had been owing to the
latter, its centre would have gone along with the moon’s.
If there were feas in the m<x>n, fire could have no
clouds, rains, nor llorms, as wr have; becaufe Ihe has
no fuch atmofphere to fupport the vapours which occafion
them. And every one knows, that when the moon is
above our horizon in the night-time, Ihe is vifible, un-
lefs the clouds of our atmofphere hide her from our
view, and all parts of her appear conftantly with the
fame clear, ferene, and calm afpedt. But thofe dark
parts of the moon, which were formerly thought to be
feas, are now found to be only vail deep cavities, and
places which refiedt not the fun’s light fo ftrongly as o-
thers, having many caverns and pits, whofe lhadows fall
within them, and are always dark on the fides next the
fun, which demonllrates their.-being hollow, and molt
of thefe pits have little knobs like hillocks handing with¬
in them, and calling Ihadows alfo; which cauie thefe
thefe places to appear darker than others which have
fewer or lefs remarkable caverns. All thefe appear¬
ances Ihew, that there are no feas in the moon; for if
there were any, their furfaces would appear fmooth and
even, like'thofe on the earth.
There being no atmofphere about the moon, the hea¬
vens in the day-time have the appearance of night to a
lunarian who turns his back toward the fun ; and when
he does, the liars appear as bright to him as they do in
the night to us. For it is entirely owing to our atmo¬
fphere that the heavens are bright about us in the day.
As the earth turns round its axis, the feveral conti¬
nents, feas, and illands appear to the moon’s inhabitants
like fo many fpots of different forms and brightnefs, mo¬
ving over its furface, but much fainter at fome times than
others, as our clouds cover them or leave them. By thefe
fpots, the lunarians can determine the time of the earth’s
diurnal motion, jull as we do the motion of the fun; and
perhaps they meafure their time by the motion of the
earth’s fpots, for they cannot have a truer dial.
The moon’s axis is fo nearly perpendicular to the ec¬
liptic, that.the fun never removes fenfibly from her equa¬
tor ; and the obliquity of her orbit, being only y-j- de¬
grees, which is next to nothing as feen from the fun,
cannot caufe the fun to decline fenfibly from her equator.
.Yet her inhabitants are not dellitute of means for afcer-
Vol," I. No. 19. 3 '
N O M Y. -441
taining the length of their year, though their method
and ours mull differ. For we can know the length of
our year by the return of our equinoxes; but the luna¬
rians, having always equal day and night, mull have
recourfe to another method; , and we may fuppofe, they
meafure their year by obferving when either of the poles
of our earth begins to be enlightened, and the other to
difappear, which is always at our equinoxes., they being
conveniently fituated for obferving great tracks of land
about our earth’s poles, which are entirely unknown to
us. Hence we may conclude, that the year is of the
fame abfolute length both to the earth and moon, though
very different as to the number ^f days ; we having 365^
natural days, and the lunarians only I2T77; every day
and night in the moon being as long as 29V on the earth.
The moon’s inhabitants 00 the fide next the earth may
as eafily find the longitude of their places as we can find
the latitude of ours. For the earth keeping conllantly,
or very nearly fo, over one meridian of th moon, the
call or well diltances of places from that meridian are as
eafily found as we can find our dillance from the equatof
by the altitude of our celeltial poles.
The planet Mars is next in order, being the firlf
above the earth’s orbit. His dillance from the fun is
computed to be 125 millions of miles; and by travelling
at the rate of 47 thoufand miles every hour, as in the
circle <3*, he goes round the fun in 636 of our djtys and
23 hours; which is the length of his year, and contains
6674 of his days, every day and night together being 40
minutes longer than wdth us. His diameter is 4444
miles, and by his diurnal rotation the inhabitants about
his equator are carried 556 miles every hour. His quan¬
tity of light and heat is equal but to one half of ours;
and the fun appears but half as big to him as to us.
This planet being but a fifth part fo big as the earth,
if any moon attends him, Ihe mull be very fmall, and
has not yet been difcovered by our bell telefcopes. He
is of a fiery red colour, and by his appulfes to fome. of
the fixed liars feems to be encompafled by a very grofs
atmofphere. He appears fometimes gibbous, but never
horned; which both thews that his orbit includes the
earth’s within it, and that he Ihines not by his own light.
To Mars, our earth and moon appear like two moons,
a bigger and a lefs, changing places with one another,
and appearing fometimes horned, fometimes half or three
quarters illuminated, but never full, nor at moll above
one quarter of a degree from each other, although they
are 240 thoufand miles afunder.
Our earth appears almolt as big to Mars as Venus
does to us, and at Mars it is never feen above 48 degrees
from the fun; fometimes it appears to pafs over the dillc
of the fun, and fo do Mercury and Venus ; but Mercury
can never b^ feen from Mars by fuch eyes as ours, unal-
filted by proper inllruments; and Venus will be as fddom
feen as we fee Mercury. Jupiter and Saturn are as vi¬
fible to Mars as to us. His axis is perpendicular to the
ecliptic, and his orbit is 2 degrees inclined to it.
Jupiter, the largell of all the planets, is Hill higher
in the fyllem, being about 426 millions of miles from the
fun; and going at the rate of 25 thoufand miles every
hour in .his orbit, as in the circle 2/, finilhes his annual
"f ' 5 T period
442 ASTRO
Period in eleven of our years 314 days and 12 hours.
He is about 1000 times as big as the earth, for his dia¬
meter is 81,000 miles; which is more than ten times the
diameter of the earth.
Jupiter turns round his axis in 9 hours 56 minutes;
fo that his year contains 10 thoufand 470 days; and the
diurnal velocity of his equatoreal parts is greater than
the fwiftnefs with which he moves in his annual orbit; a
lingular circumftance, as far as we know By this pro¬
digious quick rotation, his equatoreal inhabitants are car¬
ried 2 J thoufand 920 miles every hour, (which is 920
miles an hour more than an inhabitant of our earth’s e-
quator moves in tvventy f our hours), belidesthe 25 thou-
fand above mentioned, which is Common to all parts of
his furface, by his annual motion.
Jupiter is furrounded by faint fubRances, called belts,
in which fo many changes appear, that they are generally
thought to be clouds ; for fome of them have been firll
interrupted and broken, and then have vanilhed entirely.
They, have fometimes been obferved of different breadths,
and afterwards have all become nearly of the fame
breadth. Large fpots have been feen in thefe belts ;
and when a belt vanifhes, the contiguous fpots difappear
with it. The broken ends of fome belts have been ge¬
nerally obferved to revolve in the fame time with the
fpots; only thofe nearer the equator in fomewhat lefs
nme than thofe near the poles, perhaps on account of the
f un’s greater heat near the equator, which is parallel to
the belts and courfe of the fpots. Several large fpots,
which appear round at one time, grow oblong by de¬
grees, and then divide into two or three round fpots.
The periodical time of the fpots near the equator is 9
hours 50 minutes, but of thofe pear the poles 9 hours 5 6
minutes.
The axis of Jupiter is fo nearly perpendicular to his
orbit,, that he has no fenfible change of feafons; which
is a great advantage, and wifely ordered by the Author
of nature. For if the axis of this planet were inclined
any confiderable number of degrees, JuR fo many degrees
round each pole would in their turn be almoR fix of our
years togethar in darknefs. And as each degree of a
great circle on Jupiter contains 706 of our miles at a
mean rate, it is eafy to judge what vafi trarfts of land
would be rendered uninhabitable by any confiderable in¬
clination of his axis.
The fan appears but part fo big to Jupiter as tous ;
and his light and heat are in the fame fmall proportion,
but compenfated by tire quick returns thereof, and by
four moons (fome larger and fome lefs than our earth)
which revolve about him; fo that there is fcarce any
part of this huge planet but what is, during the whole
night, enlightened by one or more of thefe moons, ex¬
cept his poles, whence only the fartheft moons can be
ften, and where their light is not wanted, becaufe the
fun conilantly circulates in or near the horizon, and is
very probably kept in view of both poles by the refrac¬
tion of Jupiter's atmofphere, which, if it be like ours,
has certainly refractive power enough for that purpofe.
The arbits of thefe moons are reprefented in the
fcheme of the folar fyllem by four fmall circles marked
x, 2, 3, 4> on Jupiter’s orbit 2l > but they are drawn fifty
N O M Y.
times too large in proportion to it. The firft moon, or
that neareft to Jupiter, goes round him in 1 day j8 hours
and 36 minutes of our time; and is 229 thoufand miles
diftant from his centre; the fecond performs its revolution
in three days 13 hours and 15 minutes, at 364 thoufand
miles diRance; the third in feven days three hours and
59 minutes, at the diRance of 580 thoufand miles; and
the fourth, or outermoR, in 16 days 18 hours and 30
minutes, at the diRance of one million of miles from his
centre. The periods of thefe moons are fo incommen-
furate to one another, that if ever they were all in a right
line between Jupiter and the. fun, it will require more
than 3,000,000,000,000 years from that time to bring
them all into the fame right line again, as any one will
find who reduces all their periods into feconds, then mul¬
tiplies them into one another, and divides the produd by
432 ; which is the higheR number that will divide
the product of all their periodical times, namely,
42,085,303,376,931,994,9^5,904 feconds, without a
remainder.
The angles under which the orbits of Jupiter’s moons
are feen from the eartb, at its mean diRance from Jupi¬
ter, are as follow: The firR, 3' 55": the fecond, 6/
; the third, 9' 58^; and the fourth, 17' ^o''.
And their diRances from Jupiter, meafured by his femi-
diameters, are thus: The firR, 54; the fecond, 9; the
third, I4|4; and the fourth, 25^. This planet, feen
from its neareR moon, appears 1000 times as large as-
our moon does to us; waxing and waning in all her
monthly fhapes every 424 hours.
Jupiter’s three neareR moons fall into his lhadow, and
are eclipfed in every revolution; but the orbit of the
fourth moon is fo much inclined, that it pafleth by its
oppofition to Jupiter, without falling into his fiiadow,
two years in every fix. By thefe eclipfes, altronomers
have not only dtfeovered that the fun’s light takes up
eight minutes of time in coming to us, but they have al-
fo determined the longitudes of places on this eartii with
greater certainty and facility than by any other method
yet known.
The difference between the equatoreal and polar dia¬
meters of Jupiter is 6230 miles ; for his equatoreal dia¬
meter is to his polar, as 13 to 12. So that his poles are
3115 miles nearer his centre than his equator is.
Jupiter’s orbit is 1 degree 20 minutes inclined to the
ecliptic. His north node is in the 7th degree of Cancer,
and his fouth node in the 7th degree of Capricorn.
Saturn, the remoteR of all the planets, is about 780
millions of miles from the fun; and, travelling at the
rate of 18 thoufand miles every hour, as in the circle
marked i), performs its annual circuit in 29 years 1 by-
days and 5 hours of our time; which makes only one
year to that planet. Its diameter is 67,000 miles; and
therefore it is near 600 times as big as the earth.
This planet is furrounded by a thin broad ring, as an
artificial globe is by a horizon, fig. 5, The ring ap¬
pears double when feen through a good telefcope, and is
repreffented by the figure in fuch an oblique view as it is
generally feen. It is inclined 30 degrees to the ecliptic,
and is about 21 thoufand miles in breadth; which is e-
qual to its diRance from Saturn on all fidea. There is
reafoa
ASTRO
teafon to believe that the ring turns round its axis, be-
caufe, when it is almoft edge-wife to us, it appears lome-
■uhat thicker on one fide of the planet than on the other;
and the thickeft edge has been feen on -different fides
at different times. But Saturn having no vifible fpots
bn his body, whereby to determine the time of his turn¬
ing round his axis, the length of his days and nights,
and the pofittcn of his axis, are unknown to us.
To Saturn, the fun appears only part fo big as
to us; and the light and heat he receives from the fun
are in the fame proportion to ours. But to compenfate
for the fmail quantity of fun-light, he has five moons,
all going round him oh the outfide of his ring, and near¬
ly on the fame plane with it. The firff, or neareft moon
to Saturn, goes round him in i day 21 hours 19 minutes ;
and is 140 thoufand miles from his centre: The fecond,
in 2 days i 7 hours 40 minutes ; at the difiance of 187
thoufand miles: The third, in 4 days 12 hours 25 mi¬
nutes,, at 263 thoufand miles diftance : The fourth, in
35 days 22 hours 41 minutes, at the difiance of 600
thoufand miles : And the fifth or outermoft, at one
million 800 thoufand miles from Saturn’s centre, goes
found him in 79 days 7 hours 48 minutes. Their or¬
bits, in the fcheme of the folar fyfiem, are reprefent-
ed by the fmall five circles, marked 1, 2, 3, 4, t, on
Saturn’s orbit; but thefe, like the orbu's of the other
latellites, are drawn fifty times too large in proportion to
the orbits of their primary planets.
The fun fiiines almoft fifteen of our years together on
one fide of Saturn’s ring without fetting, and as long on
the other in its turn. So that the ring is vifible to the
inhabitants of that planet for almoft fifteen of our years,
and as long invifible by turns, if its axis has no inclina¬
tion to its ring: But if the axis of the planet be inclined
to the ring, fuppofe about 30 degrees, the ring will ap¬
pear and difappear once every natural day to all the inha¬
bitants within 30 degrees of the equator, on both fides,
frequently eclipfing the fun in a Saturnian day. More¬
over, if Saturn’s axis be fo inclined to his ring, it is per¬
pendicular to his orbit; and thereby the inconvenience
of different feafons to that planet is avoided. For con-
fideririg the length of Saturn’s year, which is almoft e-
qual to thirty of ours, what a dreadful condition muft
the inhabitants of his polar regions be jn, if they be
half that time deprived of the light and heat of the fun ?
•which is not their cafe alone, if the axis of the planet
be perpendicular to the ring, for then the ring muft hide
the fun from vaft tracks of land on each fide of the equa¬
tor for 13 or 14 of our years together, on thefouth fide
and north fide by turns, as the axis inclines to or from
the fun-: The reverfe of which inconvenience is another
good prefumptive proof of the inclination of Saturn’s axis
to its ring, and aifo of his axis being perpendicular to his.
orbit.
This ring, feen from Saturn, appears like a vaft lumi¬
nous arch in the heavens, as if it did not belong to the
planet. When we fee the ring mcft open, its lhadow up¬
on the planet is broadeft; and from that time the ftiadow
grows narrower, as the ring appears to do to us ; until,
by Saturn’s annual motion, the fun copes to the plane of
the ring, or even with its edge; which being then dired-
N O M Y. 443
ed towards us, becomes invifiblc on account of its thin-
nefs; as (hall be explained afterwards. The ring difap¬
pear s twice in every annual revolution of Saturn, namely,
when he is in the 19th degree both of Pifces and of Vir¬
go. And when Saturn is in the middle between thefe
points, or in the 19th degree either of Gemini or of Sa¬
gittarius, bis ring appears moft open to us; and then its
longeft diameter is to its Ihorteft, as 9 to 4.
To fuch eyes as ours, unafiifted by inftrumems, Ju¬
piter is the only planet that can be feen from Saturn,
and Saturn the only pk.net that can be feen from Jupiter.
So that the inhabitants of thefe two planets muft either
fee much farther than we do, or have equally good in-
ftruments to carry their fight to remote objects, if they
know that there is fuch a body as our earth in the uni-
verfe: For the earth is no bigger, feen from Jupiter, than
his moons are feen from the earth ; and if his large body
had not firft amadled our fight, and prompted our curic-
fity to view him with the telefcope, we fiiould never
have known any thing of his moons; unlefs by chance
we had dire&ed the telefcope toward that fmall part of
the heavens where they were at the time of obfervation.
And the like is true of the moons of Saturn.
The orbit of Samrn is 24 degrees inclined to the e-
cliptic, or orbit of our earth, and interfedls it in the 21ft
degree of Cancer and of Capricorn; fo that Saturn’s
nodes are only 14 degrees from Jupiter’s.
The quantity of light, afforded by the fun to Jupiter,
being but ^th part, and to Saturn only ^th part, of
what we enjoy, may, at firft thought, induce us to be¬
lieve that thefe two planets are entirely unfit for rational
beings to dwell upcn. But, that their light is not fo
weak as tve imagine, is evident from their brightnefs in.
the night-time ; and alfo from this remarkable pheno¬
menon, that when the "fun is fo much eclipfed to us, as
to have only the 40th part of his diik left uncovered by
the moon, the decreafe of light is not very fenfible; and
juft at the end of darknefs in total eclipfes, when his
weftern limb begins to be vifible, and feems no bigger
than a bit of fine filver wire, every one b furprifed at the
brightnels wherewith that fmall part of him ftiines. The
moon, when full, affords travellers light enough to keep
them from miftaking their way ; and yet, according ro
Dr Smith, it is equal to no more than a 90 thoufandth
part of the light of the fun : That is, the fun’s light is
90 thoufand times as ftrong as the light of the moon
when full. Confequently, the fun gives a thoufand
times as much light to Saturn as the full moon does to
us ; and above three thoufand times as much to Jupiter.
So that thefe two planets, even without any moons,
would be much more enlightened than we at firft ima¬
gine ; and by having fo many, they may be very com¬
fortable places of refidence. Their heat, fo far as it de¬
pends on the force of the fun’s rays, is certainly much
lefs than ours ; to which no doubt the bodies of their
inhabitants are as well adapted as ours are to the feafons
we enjoy. And if we confider, that Jupiter never has
any winter, even at his poles, which probably is alfo the
cafe with Saturn, the cold cannot be fo intenfe on thefe
two planets as is genetally imagined. Befides, there
may be fomething in their nature or foil much warmer
444 ASTRO
than in that of our earth : And we find that all our heat
depends not on the rays of the fun; for if it did, we
ihould always have the fame months equally hot or cold
at their annual returns. But it is far othervvife, for Fe¬
bruary is fometimes warmer than May; which muft be
owing to vapours and exhalations from the earth.
Every perfon who looks upon, and compares the fyf-
tems of moons together, which belong to Jupiter and Sa¬
turn,, muft be amazed at the vaft magnitude of thefe two
planets, and the noble attendance they have in refpeft of
our little earth; and can never bring himfelf to think,
that an infinitely, wife Creator fhould difpofe of all his
animals and vegetables here; leaving the other planets
bare and deftitute of rational creatures. To fuppofe that
he had any view to our benefit, in creating thefe moons,
and giving them their motions round Jupiter and Saturn;
to imagine that he intended thefe valt bodies for any ad¬
vantage to us, when he W'ell knew that they could never
be feen but by a few adronomers peeping through tele-
fcopes ; and that he gave to the planets regular returns of
days and nights, and different feafons to all where they
would be convenient; but of no manner of fervice to us,
except only what immediately regards our own planet the
earth; to imagine that he did all this on our account, would
be charging him impioufly with having done much in vain;
and as abfurd, as to imagine that he has created a lit¬
tle fun and a planetary fyftem within the fhell of our
earth, and intended them for our ufe. Thefe confide-
rations amount to little lefs than a pofitive proof, that
alU the planets are inhabited : For if they are not, ,why
all this care in furnilhing them with fo many moons, to
fupply thofe with light which are at the greater diftances
from the fun ? Do we not fee, that the farther a planet
is from the fun, the greater apparatus it has for that pur-
pofe ? fave only Mars, which being but a fmall planet,
may have moons too fmall to be feen by us. We know
that the earth goes round the fun, and turns round its
own axis, to produce the viciflitudes of fummer and
winter by the former, and of day and night by the latter
motion, for the benefit of its inhabitants. May we not
then fairly conclude* by parity of reafon, that the end
and defign of all the other planets is the fame? and is
not this agreeable to the beautiful harmony which exifts
throughout the univerfe ? ,
In fig. 2. we have a view of the proportionaf breadth
of the fun’s face or difk, as feen, from the different
planets. The fun is reprefented, N° 'i, as feen from
Mercury; N° 2, as feen from Venus; N° 3, as feen
from the earth ; N0 4, as feen from Mars; N° j, as
feen from Jupiter ; and N° 6, as feen from Saturn
Let the circle B, (fig. 3.) be the fun as feen from any pla¬
net, at a given diftance ; to another planet, at double that
diftance, the fun will appear juft of half that breadth,
aa d, which contains only one fourth part of the area,
or furface of B. For all circles, as well as fquare
furfaces, are to one another as the fquares of their dia¬
meters, Thus, (fig. 4.) the fquare is juft half as broad as
the fquare B ; and yet it is plain to fight, that B contains
four times as much furface as /f. Hence, by comparing
the diameters of the above circles (fig. 2.) together, it
will be found, that, in round numbers, the fun appears
N O M Y.
7 times larger to Mercury than to us, 90 times larger to
us than to Saturn, and 630 times as large to Mercury as
to Saturn.
In fig. 5. we have a view of the bulks of the planets
in proportion to each other, and to a fuppofed globe of
two feet diameter for the fun. The earth is 27 times
as big as Mercury, very little bigger than Venus, five times
as big as.Mars ; but Jupiter is 1049 times as big as the
earth ; Saturn 586 times as big, exclufive of his ring;,
and the fun is 877 thoufand 650 times as big as the
earth. If the. planets in this figure were fet at their
due diftances from a fun of two feet diameter, according
to their proportional bulks, as in our fyftem, Mercury
would be 28 yards from the fun’s centre ; Venus 51
yards 1 foot; the earth 70 yards 2 feet; Mars 107
yards 2 feet; Jupiter 370 yards 2 feet; and Saturn 760
yards two feet ; the comet of the year 1680, at its
greateft diftance, 10 thoufknd 760 yards. In this pro-?
portion, the moon’s diftance from the centre of the earth
would be only 74 inches.
To aftift the imagination in forming an idea of the vaft:
diftances of the fun, planets, and ftars, let us fuppofe,
that a body projedfed from the fun fhould continue to
fly with the fwiftnefs of a cannon-ball, i. e. 480 miles
every hour; this body would reach the orbit of Mercu¬
ry, in 7 years 221 days ; of Venus, in 14, years 8 days ;
of the earth, in 19 years 91 days ; of Mars, in 29 years
85 days; of Jupiter, in too years 280 days; of Sa-;
turn, in 184 years 240 days ; to the comet of 1680, at
its greateft diftance from , the fun, in 2660 years; and
to the neareft fixed ftars, in about 7 million 600 thou-;
fand years.
As the earth is not the centre of the orbits in which
the planets move, they come nearer to it and go farther
from it, and at different times ; on which account they
appear bigger and lefs by turns. Hence, the apparent
magnitudes of the planets are not always a certain rule
to know them by.
Under fig. 3. are the names and charadters of the
twelves figns of the zodiac, which the reader fhould be
perfedlly well acquainted with, fo as to know the cha-
radfers without feeing the names. Every fign contains
30 degrees, as in the circle bounding the folar fyftem;
to which the charadters of the figns are fet in their pro¬
per places.
: The Comets are folid opaque bodies, with long
tranfparent trains or tails, ifiuing from that fide which is
turned away from the iun. They move about the fun in
very excentric ellipfes; and are of a much greater den-
fity than the earth; for fome of them are heated in eve¬
ry period to fuch a degree, as would vitrify or dillipate
any fubftance known to us. Sir Ifaac Newton computed
the heat of the'comet which appeared in the year 1680,
when neareft the fun, to be 2000 times hotter than red;
hot iron ; and that, being thus heated, it muft retain its
heat until it comes round again, although its period
fhould be more than twenty thoufand years ; and it is
computed to be only 57;.
Part of the paths of three comets are delineated in
the fcheme of the folar fyftem, and the. years marked
in which they made their appearance. It is believed
that
riafexxxix:.
.
q.mJ.
(^Tertu**
©»T4?»J?«y
fans*)'
()£> OV
-S/'/’ra nAxrrf/o
m
t Stiqitt«ru<d
' ^
ASTRO
that there are at leafl: 21 comets belonging to our fyftem,
moving in all forts of directions; and all thofe which have
been obferved, have moved through the etherial regions
and the orbits of the planets without fuffering the leaft
fenfible refiftance in their motions; which plainly proves
that the planets do not move in folid orbs. Of ail the
comets, the periods of the above mentioned three only
are known with any degree of certainty. The firft of
thefe comets appeared in the years 1531, 1607, and
1682; was expeded to appear again in the year 1758,
and every 75th year afterwards. The fecond of them
appeared in 1532 and 1661, and maybe expeded to re¬
turn in 1789, and every 129th year afterwards. The
third, having laft appeared in 1680, and its period being
no lefs than 575 years, cannot return until the year 2225.
This comet, at its greatell diftance, is about 11 thoufand
two hundred millions of miles from the fun; and at its
lealt diftance from the fun’s centre, which is 490,000
miles, is within lefs than a third part of the fun’s femi-
diameter from his furface. In that part of its orbit
which is neareft the fun, it flies with the amazing fwift-
nefs of 880,000 miles in an hour ; and the fun, as feen
from it, appears an hundred degrees in breadth, confe-
quently 40 thoufand times as large as he appears to us.
The aftonifhing length that this comet runs out into
empty fpace, fuggefts to our minds an idea of the vaft
diftance between the fun and the neareft fixed ftars; of
of whofe attractions all the comets muft keep clear to
return periodically, and go round the fun ; and it fhews us
alfo, that the neareft (tars, which are probably thofe
that feem the largeft, are as big as our fun, and of the
fame nature with him; otherwife they could not appear
fo large and bright to us as they do at fuch an immenfe
diftance.
The extreme heat, the denfe atmofphere, the grofs
vapours, the chaotic ftate of the comets, feem at firft
fight to indicate them altogether unfit for the purpofes
of animal life, and a moft miferable habitation for ra¬
tional beings; and therefore fome are of opinion that
they are fo many hells for tomenting the damned with
perpetual viciffitudes of heat and cold. But when we
confider, on the other hand, the infinite power and
goodnefs of the Deity, the latter inclining, and the
former enabling him to make creatures fuited to all
dates and circumftances; that matter exifts. only for the
fake of intelligent beings ; and that where-ever we find
it, we always find it pregnant with life, or neceffarily
fubfervient thereto; the numberlefs fpecies, the afto-
nifhing diverfity of animals in earth, air, water, and e-
ven on other animals; every blade of grafts, every leaf,
every fluid fwarming with life ; and every one of thefe
enjoying fuch gratifications as the nature and ftate of
each requires : When we refleCf moreover, that fome
centuries ago, till experience undeceived us, a great part
of the earth was judged uninhabitable, the torrid zone
by reafon of exceffive heat, and the frigid zones be-
caufe of their intolerable cold ; it feems highly pro¬
bable, that fuch numerous and large mafl'es of durable
matter as the comets are, however unlike they be to our
earth, are not deftitute of beings capable of contempla¬
ting with ’wonder, and acknowledging with gratitude,
Vol. I. Numb. 19, 3
N O M Y. 445
the wifdom, fymmetry, and beauty of the creation ; which
is more plainly to be obferved in their extenfive tour
through the heavens, than in our more confined circuit.
If farther conjefture is permitted, may we not fuppole
them inftrumental in recruiting the expanded fuel of
the fun, and fupplying the exhaufted moifture of the
planets ? However difficult it may be, circumftanced as
we are, to find out their particular deftination, this is an
undoubted truth, that where-ever the Deity exerts his
power, there he alfo manifefts his wifdom and goodnels.
The folar fyftem here defcribed is not a late inven¬
tion, for it was known and taught by the wife Samian
philofopher Pythagoras, and others among the ancients;
but in latter times was loft, till the 15th century, when
it was again reftored by the famous Polifti philofopher,
Nicholas Copernicus, who was born at Thorn in the year
1473. In this he was followed by the greateft mathe¬
maticians and philofophers that have fince lived; as
Kepler, Galileo, Defcartes, Gaffendus, and Sir Ifaae
Newton; the laft of whom has eftablffhed this fyftem
on fuch a foundation of mathematical and phyfical de-
monftraticn, as can never be (haken.
In the Ptelemean fyftem, the earth was fuppofed to be
fixed in th ecentre of the univerfe ; and that the Moon,
Mercury, Venus, the Sun, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn,
moved round the earth : Above the planets this hypo-
thefis placed the firmament of ftars, and then the two
cryftalline fpheres; all which were included in and recei¬
ved motion from the primum mobile, which conftantly.
revolved about the earth in 24 hours from eaft to weft.
But as.this rude fcheme was found incapable to (land the
teft of art and obfervation, it was foon reje&ed by all
true philofophers.
The Tychonic fyftem fucceeded the Ptolemean, but
was never fo generally received. In this the earth was
fuppofed to (land ftill in the centre of the univerfe or fir¬
mament of ftars, and the fun to revolve about it every 24
hours ; the planets, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter,
and Saturn, going round the fun in the times already
mentioned. But fome of Tycho’s difciples fuppofed the
earth to have a diurnal motion round its axis, and the
fun, with all the above planets, to go round the earth in
a year; the planets moving round the fun in the forefaid
times. This hypothefis, being partly true, and partly
falfe, was embraced by few ; and loon gave way to the
only true and rational fcheme, reftored by Copernicus,
and demonftrated by Sir Ifaac Newton.
Chap. IV. The Phenomena of the Heavens
as feen from different Parts of the Earth.
We are kept to the earth’s furface on all fides by the
power of its central attraiftion ; which, laying hold of ail
bodies according to their denfities or quantities of matter,
without regard to their bulks, conftitutes what we call
their weight. And having the Iky over our heads, go
where we will, and our feet towards the centre of the
earth, we call it up over our heads, and down under our
feet: Although the fame right line which is down to us,
if continued through, and beyond the oppofite fide of the
f s U earth.
44^ A S T R O
earth, would be up to the inhabitants on the oppofite fide.
For, the inhabitants n, i, e, m, s, o, q, 1, (Plate XXXIX.
fig. 6.) Hand with their feet towards the earth’s centre C;
and have the fame figure of Iky, N, /, E, M, S, 0, §>_, L
over their heads. Therefore the point S is as direidly
upward to the inhabitant (s) on the fouth pole, as Ar is to
the inhabitant n on the north pole ; fo is E to the inha¬
bitant e, fuppofed to be on the north end of Peru; and
i£_to the oppofite inhabitant q on the middle of the illand
of Sumatra. Each of thefe obfervers is furprifed that
his oppofite or antipode can Hand with his head hanging
downwards-. But let either go to the other, and he will
tell him that he flood as upright and firm upon the place
where he was, as he now hands where he is. To all thefe
obfervers,. the fun, moon, and bars, feem to turn round
the points N and S, as the poles of the fixed axis NCS;
becaufe the earth does really turn round the mathematical
line nCs as round an axis, of which n is the north pole,
and s the fouth pole. The inhabitant £/ (Plate XL. fig. i.)
affirms that he is on the uppermoft fide of the earth, and
wonders how another at L can hand on the undermoft fide
with his head hanging downwards. But U, in the mean
time, for gets that in twelve hours time he will be carried
half round with the earth, and then be in the very fitu-
ation that L now is, although as far from him as before.
And yet, when U comes there, he will find no difference
as to his manner of handing; only he will fee the oppo¬
fite half of the heavens, and imagine the heavens to have
gone half round the earth.
When we fee a globe hung up in a room, we cannot
help imagining it to have an upper and an under fide,
and immediately form a like idea of the earth ; from
whence we conclude, that it is as impoffibJe for people to
hand on the under fide of the earth, as for pebbles to lie
en the under fide of a common globe, which inftantly
fall down from it to the ground; and well they may,
becaufe the attradlion of the earth, being greater than
the attraction of the globe, pulls them away. Juft fo
would be the cafe with our earth, if it were placed near
a globe much bigger than itfelf, fuch as Jupiter; for
then it would really have an upper and an under fide,
with refpeCt to that large globe; which, by its attrac¬
tion, would pull away every thing from the fide of the
earth next to,it; and only thofe on the top of the oppo¬
fite or upper fide could remain upon it. But there is
no larger globe near enough our earth to overcome its
central attraction . and therefore it has no fuch thing as
an upper and an under fide; for all bodies, on or near
its furface, even to the moon, gravitate towards its
centre.
The earth’s bulk is but a point, as that at C, com¬
pared to the heavens; and therefore every inhabitant
upon it, let him be where he will, as at n, e, m, s, &c.
fees half of the heavens. The inhabitant n, on the-
north pole of the earth, conftantly fees the hemifphere
EN£>_and having the north pole N of the heavens-
juft over his head, his horizon coincides with the celeftial
equator EC§£. Therefore, all the ftars in the northern,
hemifphere EN§>_, between the equator and north pole,.,
appear to turn round the line NC, moving parallel to
•the horizon.. The equatoreal ftars keep in the horizon,
N O M Y.
and all thofe in the fouthern hemifphere ES^_are invi-
fible. The like phenomena are feen by the obferver (s)
on the fouth pole, with refpedl to the hemifphere ES^_;
and to him the oppofite hemifphere is always invifible.
Hence, under either pole, only half of the heavens is
feen; for thofe parts which are once vifible never fet,
and thofe which are once invifible never rife. But the
ecliptic TCX, or orbit which the fun appears to defcribe
once a year by the earth’s annual motion, has the half
TC conftantly above the horizon EC§>_ of the north pole
n; and the other half CX always below it. Therefore,
whilft the fun defcribes the northern half TC of the e-
cliptic, he neither fets to the north pole, nor riles to the
fouth; and whilft he defcribes the fouthern half CX, he
neither fets to the fouth pole nor rifes to the north.
The fame things are true with refpeCt to the moon ; on¬
ly with this difference, that as the fun defcribes the e-
cliptic but once a year, he Is for half that time vifible to
each pole in its turn, and as long invifible; but as the
moon goes round the ecliptic in 27 days 8 hours, ffie is
only vifible for 13 days 16 hours, and as long invifible
to each pole by turns. All the planets likewile rife and
fet to the poles, becaufe their orbits are cut obliquely in
halves by the horizon of the poles. When the fun (in
his apparent way from X) arrives at C, which is on the
20th of March, he is juft rifing to an obferver n on the
north pole, and fetting to another at s on the fouth pole.
From C he rifes higher and higher in every apparent di¬
urnal revolution, till he comes to the higheft point of the
ecliptic/, on the 21 ft of June, and then he is at his
greateft altitude, which is 23-J degrees, or the arc
Ey, equal to his gteaneft north declination ; and from
thence he feems to defcend gradually in every apparent
circumvolution, till he fets at C on the 23d of Septem¬
ber; and then he goes to exhibit the like appearances at
the fouth pole for the otherkalf of the year. Hence, the-
fun’s apparent motion round the earth is not in parallel
circles, but in fpirals ; fuch as might be reprefented by a
thread wound round a globe from tropic to tropic; the
fpirals being at fome diftance from one another about the
equator, and gradually nearer to each other as they ap¬
proach toward the tropics.
If the obferver be any where on the terreftrial equa¬
tor eCq, as fuppofe at e, he is in the plane of the cele¬
ftial equator; or under the equinoxial EC^j and the
axis of the earth nCs is coincident with the plane of his
horizon, extended out to N and S, the north and fouth
poles of the heavens. As the earth turns round the line
NCS, the whole heavens MOL/ feem to turn round the
fame line, but the contrary way. It is plain that this
obferver has the celeftial poles conftantly in his horizon;
and that his horizon cuts the diurnal paths of all the ce¬
leftial bodies perpendicularly and in halves. Therefore
the fun. planets and ftars, rife every day, and afeend per¬
pendicularly above the horizon for fix hours ; and, paf-
fing over the meridian, defcend in the fame manner for
the fix. following hours; then fet in the horizon, and
continue twelve hours below it. Confequently at the
equator the days and nights are equally long throughout
the year. When the obferver is in the fituation e, he
fees the hemifpliere SEN■, but in twelve hours after,,
he.
ASTRO
he is carried half round the earth’s axis to q , and then
the hemifphere S^JV becomes vifible to him ; and SEN
difappears. Thus we find, that to an obferver at either
of the poles, one half of the fky is always vifible, and
the other half never feen ; but to an obferver on the e-
quator, the whole fky is feen every 24 hours.
The figure here referred to, reprefents a celeftial
globe of glafs, having a terreftial globe within it ; after
the manner of the glafs-fphere invented by Dr Long,
Lowndes’s profeflbr of aftronomy in Cambridge.
If a globe be held fidewife to the eye, at fome diftance,
and fo that neither of its poles can be feen, the equator
EC^_, and all circles parallel to it, as DL, yzx, abX,
MO, &c. will appear to be ftraight lines, as proje&ed
in this figure; which is requifite to be mentioned here,
becaufe we fhall have occafion to call them circles in the
following articles of this chapter.
Let us now fuppofe that the obferver has gone from
the equator e towards the north pole n, and that he flops
at i, from which place he then fees the hemifphere
MEINL; his horizon MCL having fhifted as many
degrees from the celeflial poles N and S, as he has tra¬
velled from under the equinofiial E. And as the heavens
feem conflantly to turn round the line NCS as an axis,
all thofe flats which are not fo many degrees from the
north pole N as the obferver is from the equinoctial*
namely, the flars north of the dotted parallel DL, never
fet below the horizon ; and thofe which are fouth of the
dotted parallel MO never rife above it. Hence the for¬
mer of thefe two parallel circles is called the circle of
perpetual apparition, and the latter the circle of perpe¬
tual occultation; but all the ftars between thefe two cir¬
cles rife and fet every day. Let us imagine many circles--
to be drawn between thefe two, and parallel to them;
thofe which are on the north fide of the equinoctial will
be unequally cut by the horizon MCL, having larger
portions above the horizon than below it; and the more
fo, as they are nearer to the circle of perpetual appari¬
tion ; but the reverfe happens to thofe on the fouth fide-
of the equinoctial, whilft the equinoctial is divided in
two equal parts by the horizon. Hence, by the appa¬
rent turning of the heavens, the northern ftars defcribe
greater arcs or portions of circles above the horizon than,
below it; and the greater, as they are farther from the
equinoctial towards the circle of perpetual apparition;
whilil the contrary happens to all flars fouth of the equi¬
noctial; but thofe upon it defcribe equal arcs both above
and below the horizon, and- therefore they are juft as>
long above as beloyv it.
An obferver on the equator has no circle of perpetual
apparition or occultation, becaufe all the flars, together-
with the fun and moon, rife and fet; to him every day. .
Hut, as a bare view of the figure is fuffieient to fhewr
that thefe two circles DL and MO are jufl as far from;
the poles N and S as- the obferver at i (or one oppofite.
to him at o) is from the equator EC£f, it is plain,. that
if an obferver begins to travel from the equator towards-
either pole,. his circle of perpetual apparition rifes from-
that pole as from a point, and his circle of perpetual oc¬
cultation from the other. As the obferver advances to¬
ward the nearer pole, thefe two circles enlarge their dia-
N O M V. 447'
meters, and come nearer one another, until he comes to
the pole; and then they meet and coincide in the equi¬
noctial. On different fides of the equator, to obfervers
at equal diflances from it, the circle of perpetual appari¬
tion to one is the circle of perpetual occultation to the
other.
Becaufe the flars never vary their diflances from the
equinoctial, fo as to be fenfible in an age, the lengths of
their diurnal and noCturnal arcs are always the fame to
the fame places on the earth. But as the earth goes
round the fun every year in the ecliptic, one half of
which is on the north fide of the equinoctial, and the
other half on its fouth fide, the fun appears to change
his place every day, fo as to go once round the circle
TCX every year. Therefore whilft the fun appears tov
advance northward, from having defcribed the parallel
abA touching the ecliptic in X, the days continually
lengthen and the nights fhorten, until he comes to y and
defcribes the parallel/zx, when the days are at the long-
eft and the nights at the fhortefl; for then, as the
fun goes no farther northward, the greatefl portion that
is poffible of the diurnal arc yz is above the horizon of'
the inhabitant i, and the fmallefl portion zx below it.
As the fun declines fouthward from y, he defcribes.
fmaller diurnal and greater noCturnal arcs, or portions of
circles every day ; which-caufeth the days to fhorten and
nights to lengthen, until he arrives again at the parallel
abX-, which having only the fmall part ab above the ho¬
rizon MCL, and the great part bX below it, the days
are at the fhortefl and the nights at the longefl; becaufe
the fun recedes no farther fouth, but returns northward
as before. It is eafy to fee that the fun mull be in the
equinoctial EC£>_ twice every year, and then the days
and nights are equally long; that is, 12 hours each.
Thefe hints ferve at prefent to give an idea of fome of
the appearances refulting from the motions of the earth ;,
which will be more particularly defcribed in the tenth
chapter.
To-an obferver at either pole, the horizon and equi¬
noctial are coincident; and the fun and flars feem to
move parallel-to the horizon ; therefore, fuch an obfer¬
ver is faid to have a parallel pofition of the fphere. To.
an obferver any where between either pole and equator, the
parallels defcribed by the fun and flars are cut obliquely
by the horizon, and therefore he is faid to have an ob¬
lique pofition of the fphere. To an obferver any where¬
on the equatorj the parallels of motion, deicribed by the
fun and flars, are cut perpendicularly, or at right angles,
by the horizon; and therefore he is faid to have a right
pofition’ of the fphere. And thefe three are all the dif¬
ferent ways jthat the fphere can be polked to all people-
on the earth.
Chap. IV. The Phenomena of the Heavens
as feen from different parts of the Solar
Syjlem,
So vaflly great is the diflance of the flarry heavens*
that if viewed frem any part of the folar fyflem, or even-
many-
4^8 ASTRO
many millions of miles beyond it, its appearance would
be the very fame to us. The iun and itais would all
leem to be fixed on one concave furface, of which the
Ipedtator’s eye would be the centre. But the planets be¬
ing much nearer than the ftars, their appearances will
vary confiderably with the place from which they are
v.ewed.
If the fpedtator is at reft without their orbits, the pla¬
nets will leem to be at the fame diftance as the ftars,
but continually changing their places with relpeCt to the
ftars and to one another, affuming various phafes of in-
creafe and decreafe like the moon ; and, notwithftand-
ing their regular motions about the fun, will fometimes
appear to move quicker, fometimes flower, be as of¬
ten to the weft as to the eaft of the fun, and at their
greateft diftances feem quite ftationary. The dura¬
tion, extent, and diftance of thofe points in the heavens
where thefe digreflions begin and end, would be more or
lefs, according to the refpedtive diftances of the feveral
planets from the fun; but in the fame planet they would
continue invariably the fame at all times; like pendu¬
lums of unequal lengths ofcillating together, the fijorter
move quick and go over a fmall place, the longer move
flow and go over a large fpace. If the obferver is at
reft within the orbits of the planets, but not near the
common centre, their apparent motions will be irregular,
but lefs fo than in the former cafe. Each of the feveral
planets will appear larger and lefs by turns, as they ap¬
proach nearer or recede farther from the obferver, the
neareft varying moll in their fize. They will alfo move
quicker or flower with regard to their fixed ftars, but
will never be retrograde or ftationary.
If an obferver in motion views the heavens, the fame
apparent irregularities will be obferved, but with fome
variation refulting from its own motion. If he is on a
planet which has a rotation on its axis, not being fen-
iible of his own motion, he will imagine the whole hea¬
vens, fun, planets, and ftars, to revolve about him in
the fame time that his planet turns round, but the con¬
trary way, and will not be eafily convinced of the decep-
t on. If his planet moves round the fun, the fame irre¬
gularities and afpe&s as above mentioned will appear in
the motions of the other planets; and the fun will feem
to move among the fixed ftars or figns, diredlly oppolite
to thofe in which his planet moves, changing its place
every day as he does. In a word, whether our obferver
be in mption or at reft, whether within or without the
orbits of the planets, their motions will feem irregular,
intricate, and perplexed, unlefs he is in the centre of the
fyftem; and from thence the moft beautiful order and
harmony will be feen by him.
The fun being the centre of all the planets motions,
the only place from which their motions could be truly
ieen is the fun’s centre; where the obferver, being fup-
poferi not to turn round with the fun, (which, in this
cafe, we muft imagine to be a tranfparent body), would
fee all the ftars at reft, and feemingly equidillant from
him. To fuch an obferver, the planets would appear to
move among the fixed ftars, in a Ample, regular, and u-
mtorm manner; only, that as in equal times they dc-
fcribe equal areas, they would defcribe fpaces fomewhat
N O M Y.
nnequal, becaufe they move in elliptic orbits. Their
motions would alfo appear to be what they are in fail,
the fame way round the heavens, in paths which ends at
fmall angles in different parts of the heavens, and then
feparate a little from one another: fo that if the folar
aftronomer fhould make the path or orbit of any one pla¬
net a ftandard, and confider it as having no obliquity,
he would judge the paths of all the reft toEe inclined to
it, each planet having one half of its path on one fide,
and the other half on the oppofite fide of the ftandard
path or orbit. And if he fhould ever fee all the planets
ftart from a conjunftion with each other. Mercury would
move fo much fafter than Venus, as to overtake her again
(though not in the fame point of the heavens) in a quan¬
tity of time almoft equal to 145 of our days and nights, or,
as we commonly call them, natural days, which include
both the days and nights; Venus would move fo much
fafter than the earth, as to overtake it again in 585 na¬
tural days; the earth fo much fafter than Mars, as to
overtake him again in 778 fuch days; Mars fo much
fafter than Jupiter, as to overtake him again in 817 fuch
days; and Jupiter fo much fafter than Saturn, as to o-
vertake him again in 7236 days, all of our time.
But as our folar aftronomer could have no idea of mea-
furing the courfes of the planets by our days, he would
probably take the period of Mercury, which is the quick-
eft moving planet, for a meafure to compare the periods
of the others by. As all the ftars would appear quief-
cent to him, he would never think that they had any de¬
pendence upon the fun ; but would naturally imagine that
the planets have, becaufe they move round the fun.
And it is by no means improbable, that he would con¬
clude thofe planets whofe periods are quickeft, to move
in orbits proportionably lefs than thofe do which make
flower circuits. But being deftitute of a method for
finding their parallaxes, or, more properly fpeaking, as
they could have no parallax to him, he could never know
any thing of their real diftances or magnitudes. Their
relative diftances he might perhaps guefs at by their pe¬
riods, and from thence infer fomething of truth concern¬
ing their relative bulks, by comparing their apparent bulks
with one another. For example, Jupiter appearing big¬
ger to him than Mars, he would conclude it to be much
bigger in fadt; becaufe it appears fo, and muft be farther
from him on account of its longer period. Mercury and
the earth would feem much of the fame bulk; bet, by
comparing its period with the earth’s, he would conclude
that the earth is much farther from him than Mercury,
and confequently that it muft be really larger, though
apparently of the fame bulk ; and fo of the reft. And
as each planet would appear fomewhat larger in one part
of its orbit than in the oppofite, and to move quickeft
when it feems biggeft, the obferver would be at no lois
to determine that all the planets move in orbits, of which
the fun is not precifely in the centre.
The apparent magnitudes of the planets continually
change as feen from the earth ; which demonftrates that
they approach nearer to it, and recede farther from it
by turns. From thefe phenomena, and their apparent
motions among the ftars, they feem to defcribe looped
curves which never return into themfelves, Venus’s path
excepted-
ASTRO
excepted. And if we were to trace out all their appa¬
rent paths, and put the figures of them together in one
diagram, they would appear fo anomalous and confufed,
that no man in his fenfes could believe them to be repre-
fentations of their real paths; but would immediately
conclude, that fuch apparent irregularities muft be owing
to fome optic illufions : And after a good deal of in¬
quiry, he might perhaps be at a lofs to find out the true
caufe of thefe inequalities; efpecially if he were one of
thofe who would rather, with the greateft juftice, charge
frail man with ignorance, than the Almighty with being
the author of fuch confufion.
Dr Long, in his firll volume of Aftronomy, has given
us figures'of the apparent paths of all the planets fepa-
rately from Caffini; from them Mr Fergufon firfl: thought
of attempting to trace fome of them by an orrery, that
fhews the motions of the fun, Mercury, Venus, the earth,
and moon, according to the Copernican fyftem. Having
taken off the fun, Mercury, and Venus, he put black
lead pencils in their places, with the points turned up¬
ward, and fixed a circular ftieet of pafteboard fo that
the earth kept conftantly under its centre in going round
the fun, and the pafteboard kept its parallelifm. Then,
prefling gently with one hand upon the pafteboard to
make it touch the three pencils, with the other hand he
turned the winch that moves the whole machinery : and
as the earth together with the pencils in the places of
Mercury and Venus had their proper motions round
the fun’s pencils, which kept at reft in the centre of the
machine, all the three pencils defcribed a diagram,
from which fig. 2. of Plate XL. is truly copied in a
fmaller fize. As the earth moved round the fun, the
fun’s pencil defcribed the dotted circle of months, whilft
Mercury’s pencil drew the curve with the greateft num¬
ber of loops, and Venus’s that with the feweft. In their
inferior conjun&ions they come as much nearer the earth,
or within the circle of the fun’s apparent motion round
the heavens, as they go beyond it in their fuperior con-
junftions. On each fide of the loops they appear fta-
tionary; in that part of each loop next the earth retro¬
grade ; and in all the reft of their paths diredt.
If Caflini’s figures of the paths of the fun, Mercury,
and Venus, were put together, the figure as above traced
out would be exadtly like them. It reprefents the fun’s
apparent motion round the ecliptic, which is the fame e-
veryyear; Mercury’s motion for feven years, and Ve¬
nus’s for eight; in which time Mercury’s path makes 23
loops, crofling itfelf fo many times, and Venus’s only
five. In eight years, Venus falls fo nearly into the fame
apparent path again, as to deviate very little from it in
fome ages; but in what number of years Mercury and
the reft of the planets would defcribe the fame vifible
paths over again, it is hard to determine. Having fi-
nifhed the above figure of the paths of Mercury and Ve¬
nus, he put the ecliptic round them as in the Dodtor’s
book, and added the dotted lines from the earth to the
ecliptic for fttewing Mercury’s apparent or geocentric
motion therein for one year; in which time his path
makes three loops, and goes on a little farther; which
ftxews that he has three inferior, and as many fuperior
conjundtions with the fun in that -time ; and alfo that he
Voi.. I. No. 19. 3
N O M V, 449
is fix times ftationary, and thrice retrograde. Let us
now trace his motion for one year in the figure.
In Plate XL. fig. 2. fuppofe Mercury to be fetting
out from A towards B, (between the earth and left-hand
corner of the Plate), andasfeen from the earth, his motion
will then be diredt, or according to the order of the figns.
But when he comes to B, he appears to ftand ftill in the
23d degree of at F, as ftrewn by the line BF. Whilft
he goes from B to C, the line BF, fuppofed to move
with him, goes backward from F to E, or contrary to
the order of figns ; and when he is at C, he appears fta-
tionary at E, having gone back 114- degrees. Now,
fuppofe him ftationary on the firft of January at C, on
the 10th thereof he will appear in the heavens as at 20,
near F\ on the 20th, he will be feen as at C; on the
31ft, at H •, on the 10th of February, at /; on the 20th,
at K\ and on the 28th, at L; as the dotted lines (hew,
which are drawn through every tenth day’s motion in his
looped path, and continued to the ecliptic. On the 10th
of March, he appears at A/; on the 20th, at N\ and on
the 31ft, at 0. On the 10th of April, he appears ftationary
at P ; on the 20th, he feems to have gone back again to
0; and on the 30th, he appears ftationary at having
gone back 114 degrees. Thus Mercury feems to go for¬
ward 4 figns 11 degrees, or 131 degrees, and to go back
only 11 or 12 degrees, at a mean rate. From the 30th
of April to the 10th of May, he feems to move from ^
to R; and on the 20th, he is feen at B, going for¬
ward in the fame manner again, according to the order
of letters ; and backward when they go back ; which it
is needlefs to explain any farther, as the reader can trace
him out fo eafily through the reft of the year. The
fame appearances happen in Venus’s motion ; but as fhe
moves flower than Mercury, there are longer intervals
of time between them.
Chap. V. The phyfical Caufes of the
Motions of the Planets. The Eccentricities
cf their Orbits. The Tunes in which the
Action of Gravity alone would bring them to
the Sun.
From the uniform projeftile motion of bodies in ftraight
lines, and the univerfal power of attraftion which draws
them off from thefe lines, the curvilineal motions of all
the planets arife. In Plate XL. fig. 3. if the body A be
projedted along the right line ABX, in open fpace, where
it meets with no refiftance, and is not drawn afide by any
other power, it will for ever go on with the fame velocity,
and in the fame diredtion. For the force which moves it
from A xo B 10 any given time, will carry it from B to X
in as much more time, and fo on, there being nothing to
obftrudt or alter its motion. But if when this prpjedtile
force has carried it, fuppofe to B, the body S begins to
attradl it, with a power duly adjufted, and perpendicular
to its motion at B, it will then be drawn from the ftraight
line ABX, and forced to revolve about S in the circle
BYTU. When the body A comes to U, or any other
part of its orbit, if the fmall body u, within the fphere
f 5 X of
45<> ASTRO
ef f/’s attraftion, be projefted as in the right line
•with a force perpendicular to the attraction of U, then u
•will go round U in the orbit W, and accompany it in its
whole courfe round the body S. Here S may reprefent
the fun, U the earth, and u the moon.
If a planet at B gravitates, or is attracted toward the
fun fo as to fall from B to y in the time that the projec¬
tile force would have carried it from B to X, it will de-
fcribe the curve BY by the combined aCtion of thefe two
forces, in the fame time that the projeCtile force fingly
■would have carried it from B to X, or the gravitating
power fingly have caufed it to defcend from B toy •, and
thefe two forces being duly proportioned, and perpendi¬
cular to one another, the planet obeying them both, will
move in the circle BYTU.
But if, whilft the projeCtile force carries the planet
from, 2? to b,. the fun’s attraction (which conftitutes the
planet’s gravitation) fliould bring it down from 2? to i,
the gravitating power would then be too flrong for the
projeCtile force, and would caufe the planet to defcribe
the curve BC. When the planet comes to <7, the gra¬
vitating power (which always increafes as the fquare of
the diltance from the fun S diminifhes) will be yet ftronger
for the projeCtile force; and by confpiring in fome de¬
gree therewith, will accelerate the planet’s motion all the
way from C to K» caufing it to defcribe the arcs, BCy
CD, DE, EF, See. all in equal times. Having its mo¬
tion thus accelerated, it thereby gains fo much centrifu¬
gal force, or tendency to fly off at K in the line Kk, as
overcomes the fun’s attraction; and the centrifugal force
being too great to allow the planet to be brought nearer
the fun, or even to move round him in the circle Klmriy
&c. it goes off, and afeends in the curve KLMN, &c.
its motion decrealing as gradually from K to B, as it in-
creafed from B to K, becaufe the fun’s attraction aCts
now againft the planet’s projectile motion juft as much as
it aCted with it before. When the planet has got round
to B, its projeCtile force is as much diminilhed from its
mean ftate about G or. N, as it was augmented at K;
and fo, the fun’s attraction being more than fufficient to
keep the planet from going off at B, it deferibes the
Same orbit over again,, by. virtue of the fame forces or
powers,
A double projeCtile force will always, balance a qua¬
druple power of gravity. Let the planet at B have
twice as great an impulfe from thence towards X, as it
had before; that is, in the fame length of time that it
was projected from B to b, as in the laft example, let it
now be projected from B to c, and it will require four
times as much gravity to retain it in its orbit;, that is, it
inuft fall as far as from 2? to 4 in the time that the pro¬
jeCtile force would carry it from 2? to c, otherwife it
could not defcribe the curve. BD, as is evident by the fi¬
gure. But in as much time as the planet moves from B
to C in*the higher part of its orbit, it moves from I to
Ji, or from K to L, in the lower part thereof; becaufe,
from the joint aCtion of thefe two forces, it muft always
defcribe equal areas in equal times, throughout its annual
courfe. Thefe areas are reprefented by the triangles
BSC, CSD, DSE, ESF, 8tc. whofe contents are equal
to one another, quite round the figure.
N O M Y.
As the planets approach nearer the fun, and recede
farther from him in every revolution, there may be fome
difficulty in conceiving the reafon why the power of gra¬
vity, when it once gets the better of the projedile force,
does not bring the planets nearer and nearer the fun in
every revolution, till they fall upon and unite with him;
or why the projeCtile force, when it once gets the better
of gravity, does not carry the planets farther and farther
from the fun, till it removes them quite out of the fphere
of his attraction, and caufes them to go on in ftraight
lines for ever afterward. But by.confidering the effects
of thefe powers, this difficulty will be removed. Sup-
pofe a planet at B to be carried by the projeCtile force as
far as from B to b, in the time that gravity would have
brought it down fiom 5 to 1 ; by thefe two forces it
will defcribe the curve BC. When the planet comes
down to K, it will be but half as far from the fun 5 as
it was at B ; and therefore, by gravitating four times as
ftrongly towards him, it would fall from K to V 'm the
fame length of time that it would have fallen from B to
1 in the higher part of its orbit, that is, through four
times as much fpace; but its projeCtile force is then fo
much increafed at K, as would carry it from A' to 2 in
the fame time; being double of what it was at B, and
is. therefore too ftrong for the gravitating power, either
to draw the planet to the fun, or caufe it to go round
him in the circle Klmn, See. which would require its
falling from X to nv, through a greater fpace than gra¬
vity can draw it, whilft the projeCHle force is fuch as
would carry it from Kto k%, and therefore the planet a-
feends in its orbit KLMN, decreafing in its velocity, for
the caufe already afligned.
The orbits of all the planets are ellipfes, very little
different from circles; but the orbits of the comets are
very long ellipfes, and the lower focus of them all is in
the fun. If we fuppofe the mean diftance (or middle
between the greateft and leaft) of every planet and co¬
met from the fun to be divided into 1000 equal parts,
the excentricities of their orbits, both in fuch parts and
in Engliffi miles, will be as follow. Mercury’s 210
parts, or 6,720,000 miles; Venus’s, 7 parts, or 413,000:
miles; the earth’s, 17 parts, or 1,377,000 miles;
Mars’s, 93 parts, or 11,439,000 miles; Jupiter’s, 48
parts, or 20,352,000 miles; Saturn’s, 55 parts, or
42,735,000 miles. Of the neareft of the three fore-
mentioned comets, 1,458,000 miles; of the middle-
moft, 2,025,000,000 miles; and of the outermoft,
6,600,000,000.
By the laws of gravity and the projeCtile force, bodies
will move in all kinds of ellipfes, whether long or ffiort,
if the fpaces they move in be void of refiftance; only
tbofe which move in the longer ellipfes, have fo much,
the lefs projeCtile force impreffed upon them in the higher,
parts of their orbits; and their velocities in coming
down towards the fun are fo prodigiouffy increafed by his
attraction, that their centrifugal forces in the lower parts
of their orbits are fo great, as to overcome the fun’s at¬
traction therej, and caufe them to afeend again towards
the higher parts of their orbits; during which time, the
fun’s attraction aCting fo contrary to the motions of thofe
bodies, caufes them to move flower and flower, until
their-
V
Plat e XL |.
A S T n o
their projedile forces are diminiflied almofl to nothing ;
and then they are brought back again by the fun’s attrac¬
tion, as before.
If the proje&ile forces of all the planets and comets
Were deftroyed at their mean diftances from the fun, their
gravities would bring them down fo, as that Mercury
would fall to the fun in 15 days 13 hours; Venus, in
39 days 17 hours; the earth or moon, in 64 days 10
hours; Mars, in 121 days; Jupiter, in 290; and Sa¬
turn, in 767. The neareft comet, in 13 thoufand days ;
the middiemoli, in 23 thoufand days ; and the outermoll,
in 66 thoufand days. The moon would fall to tire earth
in 4 days 20 hours: Jupiter’s firft moon would fall to
him in 7 hours; his fecond, in 15; his third, in 30;
and his fourth, in 71 hours : Saturn’s firfl: moon would
fall to him in 8 hours; his fecond, in 12 ; his third, in
19; his fourth, in 68; and the fifth, in 336. A ftone
would fall to the earth’s centre, if there were an hollow
paffage, in 21 minutes 9 feconds. Mr Whifton gives
the following rule for fuch computations. “ It is de-
“ monftrable, that half the period of any planet, when
“ it is diminilhed in the fefquialteral proportion of the
“ number 1 to the number 2, or nearly in the proportion
“ of 1000 to 2828, is the time that it would fall to the
“ centre of its orbit.” This proportion is, when a
quantity or number contains another once and a half as
much more.
The quick motions of the moons of Jupiter and Sa¬
turn round their primaries, demonftrate that thefe two
planets have ftronger attraftive powers than the earth
has : for the ftronger that one body attradls another, the
greater muft be the projedHle force, and confequently the
quicker muft be the motion of that other body to keep
it from falling to its primary or central planet. Jupiter’s'
fecond moon is 124 thoufand miles farther from Jupiter
than our moon is from 115.; and yet this fecond moon
goes almoft eight times round Jupiter whilft our moon
goes only once round the earth. What a prodigious at¬
tractive power muft the fum then have, to draw all the
planets and fatellites of the fyftem towards him; and
what an amazing power muft it have required to put all
thefe planets and moons into fuch rapid motions at firft.!.
Ghap. VI. Reafom why the Sun, Moon, and
Stars, when rifing or fetting, appear lar¬
ger than: when they rife higher in the Hea¬
vens.
The fun and moon appear larger in the horizon than
at any confiderable height above it. Thefe luminaries,,
although at great diftances from the earth, appear float¬
ing, as it were, on,the furface of our atmofphere, (Plate
XLI. fig. 1.) HGFftC, a little way beyond die clouds ; of
which, thofe about F, direftly over our heads at F., are
nearer us than thofe about f/ or e in the horizon HEz.
Therefore, when the fun or moon appear in the hotizon at
e, they are not only feen in a part of the Iky which is really
farther from us than if they were at any confiderable al¬
titude, as about f; but they are alfo feen through a
greater quantity of air and vapours at e than at f. Here
N O M Y. 451
we have two concurring appearances which deceive our
imagination, and caufe us to refer the fun and moon to
a greater diftance at their rifing or fetting about e, than
when they are confiderably high, as at f: firft, their
feeming to be on a part of the atmofphere at e, which is
really farther than f from a fpedator at E; and, fe-
condly, .their being feen through a grofler medium when
at e than when at f, which, by rendering them dimmer,
caufes us to imagine them to be at a yet greater diftance.
And as, in both cafes, they are feen much under the
fame angle, we naturally judge them to be largeft when
they feem fartheft from us.
Any one may fatisfy himfejf that the moon appears
under no greater angle in the horizon than on the meri¬
dian, by taking a large Iheet of paper, and rolling it up
in the form of a tube, of fuch a width, that obferving
the moon through it when ftie rifes, ftie may, as it were,,
juft fill the tube ; then tie a thread round it to keep it
of that fize; and when the moon comes to the meridian,
and appears much lefs to the eye, look at her again
through the fame tube, and ftie will fill it juft as much,,
if not more, than ftie did at her rifing.
When the full moon is in her perigeo, or at her leaft
diftance from the earth, (he is feen under a larger angle,
and muft therefore appear bigger that when ftie is full at
other times : And if that part of the atmofphere where
flie rifes be more replete with vapours than ufual, flie
appears fo much the dimmer; and therefore we fancy
her to be ftill the bigger, by referring her to an un-
ufually great diftance, knowing that no objedts which are
very far diftant can appear big unlefs they be really fo.
Chap. VII. Ufe of the common Ffuadrant, and
the Method of finding the Dijlances of the.
Sun, Muon, and Blancts.
To enable the young aftronomer to underftand the
method of finding the diftances of the heavenly bodies,
v/e ftiall here give a ftiort defcription of the quadrant...
This inftrument (Plate XL/V. fig. 6.) is chiefly uled in
taking altitudes.
The altitude of any celeftial phenomenon is an arc of
the Iky intercepted between the horizon, and the pheno- -
menon. In fig. 6. of Plate XLV. let HOX be a hori¬
zontal line, fuppofed to be extended from the eye at A
to X, where the Iky and earth feem to meet at the end
of a long and level plain ; and let S be the fun. The
arc XT will be the fun’s height above the horizon at X,
and is found by the inftrument EDO, which is a quadran-
tal board, or plate of metal, divided into 90 equal parts
or degrees on its limb DPC) and has a couple of little,
brafs plates, as a and i, with a fmall hole in each of them,
called fight-holes,. for looking through, parallel to the
edge of the quadrant whereon they ftand. To the cen¬
tre E is fixed one end of a thread F, called the plumb--
line, which has a fmall weight or plummet P fixed to
its other end. Now, if an obferver holds the quadrant
upright, without inclining it to either fide, and fo that-
the horizon at X is feen through the fight-holes a and b,
the plumb-line will cut or hang over the beginning of the
degreeas
452 ASTRO
degrees at o, in the edge EC; but if he elevates the
quadrant fo as to look through the fight-holes at any
part of the heavens, fuppofe to the fun at S ; juft fo
many degrees as he elevates the fight-hole b above the
horizontal line HOX, fo many degrees will the plumb-
line cut in the limb CP of the quadrant. For, let the
obferver’s eye at X be in the centre of the celeftial arc
XTV (and he may be faid to be in the centre of the fun’s
apparent diurnal orbit, let him be on what part of the
earth he will) in which arc the fun is at that time, fup¬
pofe 25 degrees high, and let the obferver hold the qua¬
drant fo that he may fee the fun through the fight-holes;
the plumb-line freely playing on the quadrant will cut
the 25th degree in the limb CP, equal to the number of
degrees of the fun’s altitude at the time of obfervation.
.—[N. B. Whoever looks at the fun, muft have a
fmoked glafs before his eyes to fave them from hurt.
The better way is not to look at the fun through the
fight-holes, but to hold the quadrant facing the eye, at
a little diftance, and fo that the fun fhining through
one hole, the ray may be feen to fall on the other.]
In fig. 2. Plate XLI. let BAG be one half of the
earth, AC its femidiameter, S the fun, tn the moon, and
EKOL a quarter of the circle defcribed by the moon in
revolving from the meridian to the meridian again. Let
CRS be the rational horizon of an obferver at A, ex¬
tended to the fun in the heavens ; and HAO his fenfible
horizon, extended to the moon’s orbit. ALC is the
angle under which the earth’s femidiameter AC is feen
from the moon at L, which is equal to the angle OAL,
becaufe the right lines AO and CL which include both
thefe angles are parallel. ASC\% the angle under which
the earth’s femidiameter AC is feen from the fun at S,
and is equal to the angle OAf, becaufe the lines AO
and CRS are parallel. Now, it is found by obferva¬
tion, that the angle OAL is much greater than the an¬
gle OAf; but OAL is equal to ALC, and OAf is e-
qual to ASC. Now, as ASC is much lefs than ALC,
it proves that the earth’s femidiameter AC appears much
greater as feen from the moon at L, than from the fun
at S; and therefore the earth is much farther from the
fun than from the moon. The quantities of thefe angles
are determined by obfervation in the following manner.
Let a graduated inftrument, as DAE (the larger the
better) having a moveable index with fight-holes, be
fixed in fuch a manner, that its plane furface may be
parallel to the plane of the equator, and its edge AD
in the meridian: fo that when the moon is in the equi-
noiffial, and on the meridian at E, file may be feen
through the fight-holes when the edge of the moveable
index cuts the beginning of the divifions at o, on the
graduated limb DE; and when (he is fo feen, let the
precife time be noted. Now, as the moon revolves a-
bout the earth, from the meridian to the meridian again,
in 24 hours 48 minutes, fhe will go a fourth part round
it in a fourth part of that time, viz. in 6 hours 12 mi¬
nutes, as feen from C, that is, from the earth’s centre
or pole. But as feen from A, the obferver’s place on
the earth’s furface, the moon will feem to have gone a
.quarter round the earth when flte comes to the fenfible
horizon at (2; for the index, through the fights of
N O M Y.
which fhe is then viewed, will be at d, 90 degrees from
D, where it was when fhe was feen at E. Now, let the
exa<ft moment when the moon is feen at 0 (which will be
when fhe is in or near the fenfible horizon) be carefully
noted, that it may be known in what time fhe has gone
from E to 0; which time fubtra&ed from 6 hours 12
minutes (the time of her going from E to L) leaves the
time of her going from 0 to L, and affords an eafy me¬
thod for finding the angle OAL (called the moon's hori¬
zontal parallax, which is equal to the angle ALC) by
the following analogy. As the time of the moon’s de-
fcribing the arc EO is to 90 degrees, fo is 6 hours 12
minutes to the degrees of the arc DdE, which meafures
the angle from which fubtracft 90 degrees, and
there remains the angle OAL, equal to the angle ALC,
under which the earth’s femidiameter AC is feen from
the moon. Now, fince all the angles of a right-line’d
triangle are equal to 180 degrees, or to two right angles,
and the fides of a triangle are always proportional to the
fines of the oppofite angles, fay, by the Rule of Three,
as the fine of the angle ALC at the moon L is to its
oppofite fide AC, the earth’s femidiameter, which is
known to be 3985 miles, fo is the radius, viz. the fine of
90 degrees, or of the right angle ACL, to its oppofite
fide AL, which is the moon’s diftance at L, from the
obferver’s place at A, on the earth’s furface; or, fo is
the fine of the angle CAL to its oppofite fide CL, which
is the moon’s diftance from the earth’s centre, and comes
out, at a mean rate, to be 240,000 miles. The angle
CAL is equal to what OAL wants of 90 degrees.
The fun’s diftance from the earth is found the fame
way, but with much greater difficulty; becaufe his ho¬
rizontal parallax, or the angle OAS equal to the angle
ASC, is fo fmall as to be hardly perceptible, being only
lofeconds of a minute, or the 360th part of a degree.
But the moon’s horizontal parallax, or angle OAL, equal
to the an^le ALC, is very difcernible, being jy' 49//>
or 3469/ at its mean ftate ; which is more than 340
times as great as the fun’s: And therefore the diftances
of the heavenly bodies being inverfely as the tangents of
their horizontal parallaxes, the fun’s diftance from the
earth is at leaft 340 times as great as the moon’s ; and is
rather underftated at 81 millions of miles, when the
moon’s diftance is certainly known to be 240 thoufand.
But becaufe, according to fome aftronomers, the fun’s
horizontal parallax is 11 feconds, and according to o-
thers only 10, the former parallax making the fun’s di¬
ftance to be about 75,000,000 of miles, and the latter
82,000,000 ; we may take it for granted, thai the fun’s
diftance is not lefs than as deduced from the former,
nor more than as ffiewn by the latter: And every one
who is accuftomed to make fuch obfervations, knows
how hard it is, if not impoffible, to avoid an error of a
fecond, efpecially on account of the inconftancy of ho¬
rizontal refractions : And here, the error of one fecond,
in fo fmall an angle, will make an error of feven millions
of miles in fo great a diftance as that of the fun’s.
The fun and moon appear much about the fame bulk;
and every one who underftands geometry, knows how
their true bulks may be deduced from the apparent,
when their real diftances are known. Spheres are to one
another
ASTRO
•another as the cubes of their diameters; whence, if the
fun be 81 millions of miles from die earth, to appear as
big as the moon, whofe diftance does not exceed 240
thoufand miles, he muft, in folid bulk, be 42 millions
875 thoufand times as big as the moon.
Thg horizontal parallaxes are beft obferved at the e-
rjuator. 1. Becaufe the heat is fo nearly equal every
day, that the refra£Hons are almoft conftantly the fame.
2. Becaufe the paralla&ic angle is greater there, as at
A (the diftance from thence to the earth’s axis being
greater) than upon any parallel of latitude, as a or b.
The earth’s diftance from the fun being determined,
the diftances of all the other planets from him are eafily
Periodical Revolution to the fame fixed St a
N O M Y. 453
found by the following analogy, their periods round
him being afcertained by obfervation. As the fquare of
the earth’s period round die fun is to the cube of its di¬
ftance from him, fo is the fquare of the period of any
other planet to the cube of its diftance, in fuch parts or
meafures as the earth’s diftance was taken. This pro¬
portion gives us the relative mean diftances of the planets
from the fun to the greateft degree of exa&nefs; and
they are as follow, having been deduced from their pe¬
riodical times, according to the law juft mentioned,
which was difcovered by Kepler, and demonftrated by
Sir Ifaac Newton.
in Days, and decimal Parts of a Day.
Of Mercury, Venus, The Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn,
87.9692 224.6176 365.2564 686.9785 4332.514 I0759-275
Relative mean dijletnces from the fun.
38710 72333 100000 152369 520096 954006
From thefe numbers •we deduce, that if the fun's horizontal parallax be 10", the real mean difances of the
planets from the fun in Englijh miles are,
31,742,200 59.313,060 82,000,000 124,942,580 426,478,720 782,284,920
But if the fun's parallax be 11 ', their dijlances are no more than
29j032,yoo 54,238,570 75,000,000 114,276,750 390,034,500 715,504,500
Errors in diflance, arijing from the mijlake of in the fun's parallax.
2,709,700 5,074,490 7,000,000 10,665,830 36,444,220 66,780,420
But, from the tranft of Venus, A. D. 1761, the fun's parallax appears to be only 8" ; and according
to that, their real dijlance in miles are
36,668,373 68,518,044 94,725,840 144,588,575 492,665,307 903,690,197
Thefe numbers (hew, that although we have the rela¬
tive diftances of the planets from the fun to the greateft
nicety, yet the beft obfervers could not afcertain their
true diftances, until the above tranfit appeared, which
we muft confefs was embarrafled with feveral difficulties.
But the late tranfit of Venus over the fun, on the third
of June, was much better fuited to this great pro¬
blem.
The earth’s axis produced to the ftars, being carried
parallel to itfelf during the earth’s annual revolution, de-
fcribes a circle in the fphere of the fixed ftars equal to
the orbit of the earth. But this orbit, though very
large, would feem no bigger than a point if it were
viewed from the ftars; and confequently, the circle de-
fcribed in the fphere of the ftars, by the axis of the
earth produced, if viewed from the earth, muft appear
but as a point; that is, its diameter appears too little to
be meafured by obfervation : For Dr Bradley has aflured
us, that if it had amounted to a fingle fecond, or two at
moft, he ffiould have perceived it in the great number of
obfervations he has made, efpecially upon y dragonis ;
and that it feemed to him very probable that the annual
parallax of this ftar is not fo great as a fingle fecond; and
confequently, that it is above 400 thoufand times far¬
ther from us than the fun. Hence, the celeftial poles
. feem to continue in the fame points of the heavens
Vol. I. Ffo. 19. 3
throughout the year ; which, by no means, difproves
the earth’s annual motion, but plainly proves the diftance
of the ftars to be exceeding great.
The froall apparent motion of the ftars, difcovered by
that great aftronomer, he found to be no ways owing to
their annual parallax (for it came out contrary thereto)
but to the aberration of their light, which can refult
from no known caufe befides that of the earth’s annual
motion; and as it agrees fo exactly therewith, it proves,
beyond difpute, that the earth has fuch a motion: For
this aberration completes all its various phenomena eve¬
ry year ; and proves that the velocity of ftar-iight is fuch
as carries it through a fpace equal to the fun’s diftance
from us in 8 minutes 13 feconds of time. Hence, the
velocity of light is 10 thoufand 210 times as great as
the earth’s velocity in its orbit; which velocity (from
what we know already of the earth’s diftance from the
fun) may be afterted to be at leaft between 57 and 58
thoufand miles every hour : And fuppofing it to be
58000, this number, multiplied by the above 10210,
gives 592 million 180 thoufand miles for the hourly
motion of light; which laft number, divided by 3600,
the number of feconds in an hour, ihews that light flies
at the rate of more than a hundred and fixty-four
thoufand miles every fecond of time, or fwing of a com¬
mon clock pendulum.
t 5 Y
Chap.
546
ASTRO
Chap. VIII. The different Lengths of Days
and Nights, and the Vicffitudes of Sea-
fons, explained. The Explanation of the
Phenomena of Saturn's Ring concluded.
The following experiment will give a plain idea of the
diurnal and annual motions of the earth, together with
the different lengths of days and nights, and all the
beautiful variety of feafons, depending on thofe mo¬
tions.
Take about feven feet of ftrong wire, and bend it in¬
to a circular form, as abed, which being viewed oblique¬
ly, appears elliptical, Plate XLI. fig. 3. Place a lighted
candle on a table, and having fixed one end of a filk
thread K, to the north pole of a fmall terreftrial globe H,
about three inches diameter, caufe another perfon to .
hold the wire circle, fo that it may be parallel to the
table, and as high as the flame of the .candle /, which
fhould be in or near the centre. Then, having twifled the
thread as towards the left hand, that by untwilling it
may turn the globe round eallward, or contrary to the
way that the hands of a watch move ; hang the globe
by the thread within this circle, almoll contiguous to it;
and as the thread untwills, the globe (which is enlight¬
ened half round by the candle as the earth is by the fun)
will turn round its axis, and the different places upon it
will be carried through the light and dark hemifpheres,
and have the appearance of a regular fucceflion of days
and nights, as our earth has in reality by fuch a motion.
As the globe turns, move your hand flowly, fo as to
carry the globe round the candle according to the order
of the letters abed, keeping its centre even with the
wire circle ; and you will perceive, that the candle be¬
ing ftill perpendicular to the equator, will enlighten the
globe from pole to pole in its whole motion round the
circle; and that every place on the globe goes equally
through the light and the dark, as it turns round by the
uotwifting of the thread, and therefore has a perpetual
equinox. The globe, thus turning round, reprefents the
earth turning round its axis ; and the motion of the
globe round the candle reprefents the earth’s annual mo¬
tion round the fun, and fhews, that if the earth’s orbit
had no inclination to its axis, all the days and nights of
the year would be equally long, and there would be no
different feafons. But now, defire the perfon who holds
the wire, to hold it obliquely in the pofition ABCD,
raifing the fide jufl as much as he deprefles the fide
rs, that the flame may be ftill in the plane of the circle;
and twifting the thread as before, that the globe may
turn round its axis the fame way as you carry it round
the candle, that is, from weft to eaft, let the globe
down into the lowermoft part of the wire circle at rs,
and if the circle be properly inclined, the candle will
fbine perpendicularly on the tropic of Cancer, and the
frigid zone, lying within the ardtic or north polar circle,
will be all in the light, as in the figure; and will keep in
the light, let the globe turn round its axis ever fo often.
From the equator to the north polar circle all the places
have longer days and fhorter nights; but from the equa-
N O M T.
tor to thefouth polar circle juft'the reverfe. The fun
does not fet to any part of the north frigid zone, as
fhewn by the candle’s fhining on it, fo that the motion
of the globe can carry no place of that zone into the
dark : And, at the fame time, the fouth frigid zone is
involved in darknefs, and the turning of the globe brings
none of its places into the light. If the earth were to
continue in the like part of its orbit, the fun would never
fet to the inhabitants of the north frigid zone, nor rife
to thofe of the fouth. At the equator it would be al¬
ways equal day and night; and as places are gradually
more and more diftant from the equator, towards the
ardti? circle, they would have longer days and Ihorter
nights ; whilft thofe on the fouth fide of the equator
would have their nights longer than their days. In this
cafe there would be continual fummer on the north fide
of the equator, and continual winter on the fouth fide
of it.
But as the globe-turns round its axis, move your hand
flowly forward, fo as to carry the globe from H towards
E, and the boundary of light and darknefs will approach
towards the north pole, and recede towards the fouth
pole; the northern places will go through lefs and lefs
of the light, and the fouthern places through more and
more of it; fhewing how the northern days decreafe in
length, and the fouthern days increafe, whilft the globe
proceeds from if to E. When the globe is at E, it is at
a mean ftate between the loweft and higheft part of its
orbit; the candle is diredtly over the equator, the boun¬
dary of light and darknefs juft reaches to both the poles,
and all places on the globe go equally through the light
and dark hemifpheres, Ihewing that the days and nights
are then equal at all places of the earth, the poles only
excepted; for the fun is then fetting to the north pole,
and rifing to the fouth pole.
Continue moving the globe forward, and as it goes thro*
the quarter A, the north pole recedes ftill farther into
the dark hemifphere, and the fouth pole advances more
into the light, as the globe comes nearer to £5 „• And
when it comes there at F, the candle is direftly over the
tropic of Capricorn, the days are at the Ihorteft, and
nights at the longeft, in the northern hemifphere, all the
way from the equator to the arcftic circle; and the re¬
verfe in the fouthern hemifphere from the equator to the
antarflic circle; within which circles it is dark to the
north frigid zone, and light to the fouth.
Continue both motions, and as the globe moves
through the quarter B, the north pole advances towards
the light, and the fouth pole recedes towards the dark ;
the days lengthen, in the northern hemifphere, and
fhorten in the fouthern; and when the globe comes to
G, the candle will be again over the equator (as when
the globe was at E~) and the days and nights will again be
equal as formerly; and the north pole will be juft co¬
ming into the light, the fbuth pole going out of it.
Thus we fee the reafbn why the days lengthen and
fhorten from the equator to the polar circles every
year ; why there is no day or night for feveral: turnings
of the earth, within the polar circles; why there is but
one day and one night in the whole year at the poles ;
and why the days and nights are equally long all the
year
ASTRO
year round at the equator, which is always equally cut
by the circle bounding light and darknefs.
The inclination of an axis or orbit is merely relative,
becaufe we compare it with fome other axis or orbit
which we confider as not inclined at all. Thus, our ho¬
rizon being level to us whatever place of the earth we
are upon, we confider it as having no inclination; and
yet, if we travel t>o degrees from that place, we lhall
then have an horizon perpendicular to the former, but
it will Hill be level to us. And if this book be held fo
that the circle JBCD be parallel to the horizon, both
the circle abed, and the thread or axis K, will be incli¬
ned to it. But if the book or plate be held fo that the
thread be perpendicular to the horizon, then the orbit
ABCD will be inclined to the thread, and the orbit abed
perpendicular to it, and parallel to the horizon. We
generally confider the earth’s annual orbit as having no
inclination, and the orbits of all the other planets as in¬
clined to it.
Let us now take a view of the earth in its annual
courfe round the fun, confidering its orbit as having no
inclination, and its axis as inclining sji degrees from a
line perpendicular to the plane of its orbit, and keeping
the fame oblique diredlion in all parts of its annual
courfe; or, as commonly termed, keeping always paral¬
lel to itfelf.
In Plate XLI. fig. 4. let abcdefgh be the earth in
eight different parts of its orbit, equidillant from one
another, Ns its axis, N the north pole, s the fouth
pole, and S the fun nearly in the centre of the earth’s
orbit. As the earth goes round the fun according to
the order of the letters abed, &c. its axis Ns keeps
the fame obliquity, and is Hill parallel to the line
MNs. When the earth is at a, its north pole in¬
clines toward the fun S, and brings all the northern
places more into the light than at any other time of the
year. But when the earth is at e in the oppofite time of
the year, the north pole declines from the fun, which oc-
cafions the northern places to be more in the dark than
in the light; and the reverfe at the fouthern places, as
is evident by the figure. When the earth is either at c
or g, its axis inclines not either to or from the fun, but
lies fidewife to him, and then the poles are in the boun¬
dary of light and darknefs; and the fun, being diredlly
over the equator, makes equal day and night at all places.
When the earth is at b, it is half way between the fum-
mer folHice and harveff equinox; when it is at d, it is
half way from the harveH equinox to the winter folHice;
at f, half way from the winter folHice to the fpring e-
quinox; and at half way from the fpring equinox to
the fummer folHice.
From this oblique view of the earth’s orbit, let us
fuppofe ourfelves to be raifed far above it, and placed
juil over its centre S, looking down upon it from its
north pole; and as the earth’s orbit differs but very little
from a circle, we lhall have its figure in fuch a view repre-
fented by the circle ABCDEFGH (Plate XLII. fig. 1.).
Let us fuppofe this circle to be divided ipto 12 equal
parts, called Jtgns, having their names affixed to them;
and each fign into 30 equal parts, called degrees, num¬
bered 10, 20., 30, as in the outermoH circle of the fi-
N O M if. 455
gure, which reprefeuts the great ecliptic in the heavens.
The earth is ffiewn in eight different pofitions in this
circle, and in each pofition is the equator, T the tro¬
pic of Cancer, the dotted circle the parallel of London,
U the arftic or north polar circle, and P the north pole,
where all the meridians or hour-circles meet. As the
earth goes round the fun, the north pole keeps conHantly
towards one part of the heavens, as it keeps in the figure
towards the right-hand fide of the plate.
When the earth is at the beginning of Libra, namely, on
the 20th of March, in this figure (as at g in Plate XLI.
fig. 4.) the fun S as feen from the earth appears at the begin¬
ning of Aries in the oppofite part of the heavens, the north
pole is juH coming into the light, and the fun is vertical
to the equator; which, together with the tropic of Can¬
cer, parallel of London, and ar&ic circle, are all equal¬
ly cut by the circle bounding light and darknefs, coinci¬
ding with the fix o’clock hour-circle, and therefore the
days and niglus are equally long at all places; for every
part of the meridian M TLz comes into the light at fix
in the morning, and revolving with the earth according
to the order of the hour-letters, goes into the dark at
fix in the evening. There are 24 meridians or hour-cir¬
cles drawn on the earth in this figure, to fhew the time
of fun-rifing and fetting at different feafons of the year.
As the earth moves in the ecliptic according to the or¬
der of the letters ABCD, See. through the figns Libra,
Scorpio, and Sagittarius, the north pole comes more and
more into the light; the days increafe as the nights de-
creafe in length, at all places north of the equator ;
which is plain by viewing the earth at b on the yth of
May, when it is in the 15th degree of Scorpio, and the
fun as feen from the earth appears in the tyth degree of
Taurus ; for then the tropic of Cancer T is in the light
from a little after five in the morning till almoH feven in
the evening; the parallel of London from half an hour
pall four till half an hour pad feven; the polar circle U
from three till nine; and a large track round the north
pole P has day all the 24 hours, for many rotations of
the earth on its axis.
When the earth comes to c at the beginning of Capricorn,
and the fun as feen from the earth appears at the beginning
of Cancer on the 21H of June, as in this figure, it is in
the pofition a in Plate XLI. fig. 4.; and its north pole
inclines towards the fun, fo as to bring all the north fri¬
gid zone into the light, and the northern parallels of la¬
titude more into the light than the dark from the equator
to the polar circle, and the more fo as they are farther
from the equator. The tropic of Cancer is in the light
from five in the morning till feven at night; the parallel
of London from a quarter before four till a quarter af¬
ter eight; and the polar circle juff touches the dark, fo
that the fun has only the lower half of his difk hid from
the inhabitants on that circle for a few minutes about
midnight, fuppofing no inequalities in the horizon, and
no refraftions.
A bare view of the figure is enough to fhew, that as-
the earth advances from Capricorn towards Aries, and
the fun appears to move from Cancer towards Libra,
the north pole recedes towards the dark, which caufes
the days to decreafe, and the nights to increafe in length.
436 ASTRO
till the earth comes to the beginning of Aries, and then
they are equal as before; for the boundary of light and
darknefs cut the equator and all its parallels equally or
in halves. The north pole then goes into the dark, and
continues therein until the earth goes half way round its
orbit, or from the 23d of September till the 20th of
March. In the middle between thefe times, viz. on
the 2 ed of December, the north pole is as far as it can
be in the dark, which is 23 I- degrees, equal to the incli¬
nation of the earth’s axis from a perpendicular to its or¬
bit ; and then the northern parallels are as much in the
dark as they were in the light on the 21ft of June; the
winter nights being as long as the fummer days, and the
winter days as (hort as the fammer nights. It is needlefs
to enlarge farther on this fubjedt, as we flrall have occa-
lion to mention the feafons again in defcribing the orrery.
Only this mult be noted, that all that has been faid of
the northern hemifphere, the contrary mull be underftood
of the fouthern; for on different fides of the equator the
feafons are contrary, becaufe when the northern hemi¬
fphere inclines towards the fun, the fouthern declines
fro.m him.
As Saturn goes round the fun, his obliquely pofited
ring, like our earth’s axis, keeps parallel to itfelf, and is
therefore turned edgewife to the fun twice in a Saturnian
year, which is almoll as long as 30 of our years. But
the ring, though confiderably broad, is too thin to be
feen by us when it is turned round edgewife to the fun,
at which time it is alfo edgewife to the earth, and there¬
fore it difappears once in every fifteen years to us. As
the fun Urines half a year together on the north pole of
our earth, then difappears to it, and fliines as long on
the fouth pole; fo, during one half of Saturn’s year,
the fun Urines on the north fide of his ring, then difap¬
pears to it, and Urines as long on its fouth fide. When
the earth’s axis inclines neither to nor from the fun, but
lidewife to him, he inllantly ceafes to Urine on one pole,
and begins to enlighten the other; and when Saturn’s
ring inclines neither to nor from the fun, but fidewife to
him, he ceafes to Urine on the one fide of it, and begins
to firineupon the other.
The earth’s orbit being elliptical, and the fun con-
ftantly keeping in its lower focus, which, is 1,377,000
miles from the middle point of the longer axis, the earth
comes twice fo much, or 2,754,000 miles nearer the fun
at one time of the year than at another; for the fun ap¬
pearing under a larger angle in our winter than fummer,
proves that the earth is nearer the fun in winter. But
here this natural quefiion will arife. Why have we not
the hottefl: weather when the earth is neared the fun ?
In anfwer, it muft be obferved, that the excentricity df
the earth’s orbit, or 1 million 377 miles, bears no great¬
er proportion to the earth’s mean dillance from the fun
than 17 does to 1000; and therefore this fmall differ¬
ence of didance cannot occafion any great difference of
heat or cold. But the principal caufe of this difference
is, that in winter the funs rays fall fo obliquely upon us,
that any given number of them is fpread over a much
greater portion of the earth’s furface where we live, and
therefore each point mud then have fewer rays than in
fummer. Moreover, there comes a greater degree of cold
N O M Y.
in the long winter nights than there can return of heat
in fo {hort days; and on both thefe accounts the cold
mud increafe. But in fummer, the rays fall more per¬
pendicularly upon us, and therefore come with greater
force, and in greater numbers on the fame place; and
by their long continuance, a much greater degree of heat
is imparted by day than can fly off by night.
Chap. IX. The Method of finding the Lon¬
gitude by the Eclipfes of Jupiter's Satellites:
The amazing Velocity of Light demonflrated
by thefe Eclipfes.
Geographers arbitrarily chufe to call the meridian
of fome remarkable place the firji meridian. There
they begin their reckoning ; and jud fo many degrees and
minutes as any other place is to the eadward or wedward
of that meridian, fo much ead or wed longitude they
fay it has. A degree is the 360th part of a circle, be
it great or fmall; and a minute the 60th part of a de¬
gree. The Engliftr geographers reckon the longitude
from the meridian of the Royal Obfervatory at Green¬
wich, and the French from the meridian of Paris.
If we imagine 12 great circles, (Plate XLII. fig. 1.)
one of which is the meridian of any given place, to intei fedt
each other in the two poles of the earth, and to cut the
equator at every 15th degree, they will be divided by
the poles into 24 femicircles which divide the equator in¬
to 24 equal parts ; and as the earth turns on its axis, the
planes of thefe femicircles come fuccqflively after one an¬
other every hour to the fun. As in an hour of time there
is a revolution of 15 degrees of the equator, in a minute
of time there will be a revolution of 15 minutes of the
equator, and in a fecond of time a revolution of 15 fe-
conds.
Becaufe the fun enlightens only one half of the earth
at once, as it turns round its axis, he rifes to fome places
at the fame moments of abfolute time that he fets to o-
thers; and when it is mid-day to fome places, it is mid¬
night to others. The XII on the middle of the earth’s
enlightened fide, next the fun. Hands for mid-day; and
the oppofite XII on the middle of the dark fide, for mid¬
night. If we fuppofe this circle of hours to be fixed in
the plane of the equinoftial, and the earth to turn round
within it, any particular meridian will come to the dif¬
ferent hours fo as to Ihew the true time of the day or
night at all places on that meridian. Therefore,
To every place 15 degrees eaflward from any given
meridian, it is noon an hour fooner than on that meri¬
dian, becaufe their meridian comes to the fun an hour
fooner; and to all places 15 degrees weftward, it is
noon an hour later, becaufe their meridian comes an hour
later to the fun, and fo on ; every 15 degrees of motion
eaufing an hour’s difference in time. Therefore, they
who have noon an hour later than we, have their meri¬
dian, that is, their longitude, 15 degrees weftward from
us; and they who have noon an hour fooner than we,
have their meridian 15 degrees eaftward from ours; and
fo for every hour’s difference of time 15 degrees differ¬
ence
ASTRO
rcnce of longitude. Confeqitently, if the beginning or
ending of a lunar eclipfe be obferved, fuppofe at Lon¬
don, to be exadlly at midnight, and in fome other place
at 11 at night, that place is i y degrees weftward from
the meridian of London; if the fame eclipfe be obferved
at i in the morning at another place, that place is 15 de¬
crees eafhvard from the faid meridian.
But as it is not eafy to determine the exadt moment
either of the beginning or ending of a lunar eclipfe, be-
caufe the earth’s fhadow, through which the moon paffes,
is faint and ill defined about the edges, we have recourfe
to the eclipfes of Jupiter’s fatellites, which difappear fo
inftantaneoufly as they enter Jupiter’s fhadow, and e-
merge fo fuddenly out of it, that we may fix the pheno¬
menon to half a fecond of time. The firft or nearefl
fatellite to Jupiter is the moft advantageous for this pur-
pofe, becaufe its motion is quicker than the motion of
any of the reft, and therefore its immerfions and emer-
fions are more frequent.
The Englifh aftronomers have calculated tables for
(hewing the times of the eclipfes of Jupiter’s fatellites
to great precifion, for the meridian of Greenwich. Now,
let an obferver, who has thefe tables, with a good tele-
fcope and a well-regulated clock at any other place of
the earth, obferve the beginning or ending of an eclipfe
of one of Jupiter’s fatellites, and note the precife mo¬
ment of time that he faw che fatellite either immerge into,
or emerge out of the fhadow, and compare that time
with the time (hewn by the tables for Greenwich ; then,
I y degrees difference of longitude being allowed for e-
very hour’s difference of time, will give the longitude
of that place from Greenwich, as above; and if there
be any odd minute's of time, for every minute a quarter
of a degree, eaft or weft, muft be allowed, as the time
of obfervation is later or earlier than the time (hewn by
the tables. Such eclipfes are very convenient for this
purpofe at land, becaufe they happen almoft every day;
but are of no ufe at fea, becaufe the rolling of the fhip
hinders all nice telefcopical obfervations.
To explain this by a figure, in Plate XLII. fig. 1.
let 7 be Jupiter, K, L, M, A" his four fatellites in their
refpe&ive orbits, 1,2, 3, 4; and let the earth be at f,
(fuppofe in November, although that month is no other-
wife material than to find the earth readily in this
fcheme, where it is (hewn in eight different parts of its
orbit). Let be a place on the meridian of Green¬
wich, and R a place on fome other meridian eaftward
from Greenwich. Let a perfon at R obferve the inftan-
taneous vanifhing of the firft fatellite K into Jupiter’s
fhadow, fuppofe at three o’clock in the morning; but
by the tables he finds the immerfion of that fatellite to be
at midnight at Greenwich ; he can then immediately de¬
termine, that as there are three hours difference of time be¬
tween ^and R, and that R is three hours forwarder in
reckoning than it muft be 4y degrees of eaft longitude
from the meridian of Were this method as praflicable
at fea as at land, any failor might almoft as eafily, and
with equal certainty, find the longitude as the latitude.
Whilft the earth is going from C to F in its orbit,
only the immerfions of Jupiter’s fatellites into his fha¬
dow are generally feen; and their emerfions out of
Vol. I. Numb. 19. 3
N O M Y. 457
it while the earth goes from G to /?. Indeed, both
thefe appearances may be feen of the fecond, third, and
fourth fatellite when eclipfed, whilft the earth is between
D and E, or between G and but never of the firft
fatellite, on account of the fmallnefs of its orbit and
the bulk of Jupiter, except only when Jupiter is diredly
oppofite to the fun, that is, when the eartii is at g; and
even then, ftriftly fpeaking, we cannot fee either the
immerfions or emerfions of any of his fatellites, becaufe
his body being dire&ly between us and his conical fha¬
dow, his fatellites are hid by his body a few moments
before they touch his fhadow; and are quite emerged
from thence before we can fee them, as it were, juft:
dropping from him. And when the earth is at c, the
fun, being between it and Jupiter, hides both him and
his moons from us.
In this diagram, the orbits of Jupiter’s moons are
drawn in true proportion to his diameter; but, in pro¬
portion to the earth’s orbit, they are drawn 81 times
too large.
In whatever month of the year Jupiter is in conjunc¬
tion with the fun, or in oppofition to him, in the next
year it will be a month later at leaft. For whilft the
earth goes once round the fun, Jupiter defcribes a twelfth
part of his orbit. And therefore, when the earth has
finifhed its annual period, from being in a line with the
fun and Jupiter, it muft go as much forwarder as Jupiter
has moved in that time, to overtake him again ; juft like
the minute-hand of a watch, which muft, from any con-
jundtion with the hour-hand, go once round the dial-plate
and fomewhat above a twelfth part more, to overtake
the hour-hand again.
It is found by obfervation, that when the earth is be¬
tween the fun and Jupiter, as at g, his fatellites are ec¬
lipfed about 8 minutes fooner than they fhould be accor¬
ding to the tables; and when the earth is at B or C,
thefe eclipfes happen about 8 minutes later than the tables
predidt them. Hence it is undeniably certain, that the
motion of light is not inftantaneous, fince it takes about
16J minutes of time to go through a fpace equal to the
diameter of the earth’s orbit, which is 162 millions of
miles in length ; and confequently the particles of light
fly about 164 thoufand 494 miles every fecond of time,
which is above a million of times fwifter than the motion
of a cannon-bullet. And as light is i6|- minutes in tra¬
velling acrofs the earth’s orbit, it muft be 8F minutes in
coming from the fun to us ; therefore if the fun were
annihilated, we fhould fee him for 8^ minutes after; and
if he were again created, he would be 8 ^ minutes old
before we could fee him.
To illuftrate this progreflive motion of light, (Plate
XLII. fig. 2.), let A and B be the earth in two dif¬
ferent parts of its orbit, whofe diftance from each other
is 81 millions of miles, equal to the earth’s diftance from
the fun S. It is plain, that if the motion of light were
inftantaneous, the fatellite 1 would appear to enter into
Jupiter’s fhadow FF at the fame moment of time to a
fpedlator in A, as to another in B. But by many years
obfervations it has been found, that the immerfior> of the
fatellite into the fhadow is feen 8J minutes focner when
the earth is at B, than -when it is at A. And fo, as
t S Z Mr
458 ASTRO
Mr Romeur firft difcovered, the mdtion of light is there¬
by proved to be progreffive, and not inftantaneous, as
was formerly believed. It is eafy to compute in what
time the earth moves from A x.o B •, for the chord of 60
degrees of any circle is equal to the femidiameter of that
circle; and as the earth goes through all the 360 degrees
of its orbit in a year, it goes through 60 of thofe degrees
in about 61 days. Therefore, if on any given day, fup-
pofe the fird oc June, the earth is at A, on the firfl: of
Auguft it will be at 5; the chord, or ftraight line AB,
being equal to DS the radius of the earth’s orbit, the
fame with AS its diftance from the fun.
As the earth moves from D to C, through the fide
AB of its orbit, it is conftantly meeting the light of Ju¬
piter’s fatellites fooner, which occafions an apparent ac¬
celeration of their eclipfes ; and as it moves through the
other half H of its orbit, from C to D, it is receding
from their light, which occafions an apparent retardation
of their eclipfes, becaufe their light is then longer be¬
fore it overtakes the earth.
That thefe accelerations of the immerfibns of Jupi¬
ter’s fatellites into his Ihadow, as the earth approaches
towards Jupiter, and the retardations of their emerfions
out of his fliadow, as the earth is going from him, are
not occafioned by any inequality arifing from the motions
of the fatellites in excentric orbits, is plain, becaufe it
affe&s them all alike, in whatever parts of their orbits
they are eclipfed. Befides, they go often round their
orbits every year, and their motions are no way commen-
furate to the earth’s. Therefore, a phenomenon not to
be accounted for from the real motions of the fatellites,
but fo eafiiy deducible from the earth’s motion, and fo
unfwerable thereto, muft be allowed to refult from it.
This affords one very good proof of the earth’s annual
motion.
Chap. X. Of Solar and Sydereal Time.
The fixed ftars appear to go round the earth in 23
hours 56 minutes 4 feconds, and the fun in 24 hours;
fo that the ftars gain three minutes 56 feconds upon the
fun every day, which amounts to one diurnal revolu¬
tion in a year; and therefore, in 365 miles, as mea-
fured by the returns of the fun to the meridian, there
are 366 days, as meafured by the ftars returning to it;
the former are called folar days, and the latter fydereal.
The diameter of the earth’s orbit is but a phyfical
point in proportion to the diftance of the ftars; for which
reafon, and the earth’s uniform motion on its axis, any
given meridian will revolve from any ftar to the fame ftar
again in every abfolute turn of the earth on its axis,
without the leaft perceptible difference of time {hewn by
a clock which goes exactly true.
If the earth had only a diurnal motion, without an an¬
nual, any given meridian would revolve from the fun to
the fun again in the fame quantity of time as from, any
ftar to the fame ftar again, becaufe the fun would never
change his place with refpeft to the ftars. i But as the
earth advances almoft a degree eaftward in its orbit in
the time that it turns eaftward round its axis* whatever
N O M Y.
ftar paffes over the meridian on any day with the fun,
will pafs over the fame meridian on the next day when
the fun is almoft a degree fhort of it; that is, 3 minutes
56 feconds fooner. If the year contained only 360
days, as the ecliptic does 360 degrees, the fun’s appa¬
rent place, fo far as his motion is equable, would change
a degree every day; and then the fydereal days would be
juft four minutes fliorter than the folar.
In Plate XLII. fig. 3. let ABCDEFGH1KLM be
the earth’s orbit, in which it goes round the fun every
year, according to the order of the letters, that is, from
weft to eaft; and turns round its axis the fame way from
the fun to the fun again every 24 hours. Let S be the
fun, and R a fixed ftar, at fuch an immenfe diftance, that
the diameter of the earth’s orbit bears no fenfible pro¬
portion to that diftance. Let Nm be any particular me¬
ridian of the earth, and N a given point or place upon
that meridian. When the earth is at A, the fun S hides
the ftar R, which would always be hid if the earth ne¬
ver removed from A; and confequently, as the earth
turns round its axis, the point N would always come
round to the fun and ftar at the fame time. But when
the earth has advanced, fuppofe a twelfth part of its
orbit from A to B, its motion round its axis will bring
the point N a twelfth part of a natural day, or two
hours, fooner to the ftar than to the fun ; for the angle
NBn is equal to the angle ASB ; and therefore any
ftar, which comes to the meridian at noon with the ftni
when the eaith is at A, will come to the meridian a't
10 in the forenoon when the earth is at i?. When the
earth comes to C, the point W will have the ftar on its
meridian at 8 in the morning, or four hours fooner than
it comes round to the fun ; for it muft revolve from TV to »,
before it has the fun in its meridian. When the earth
comes to D, the point N will have the ftar on its meri¬
dian at 6 in the morning, but that point muft revolve fix
hours more from N to n, before it has mid-day by the
fun : For now the angle ASD is a right angle, and fo
is NDn ; that is, the earth has advanced 90 degrees in
its orbit, and muft turn 90 degreee on its axis to carry
the point TV’from the ftar to the fun : For the ftar always
comes to the meridian when Nm is parallel to RSA •,
becaufe DS is but a point in refpeft'of RS. When the
earth is at E, the ftar comes to the meridian at 4 in
the mornihg; at F, at 2 in the morning; and at G, the
earth having gone half round its orbit, W points to the
ftar R at midnight, it being then diredtly oppofite to the
fun; and therefore, by the earth’s diurnal motion, the
ftar comes to the meridian 12 hours before the fun.
When the earth is at H, the ftar comes to the meridian
at 10 in the evening; at I, it comes to the meridian 8,
that is, 16 hours before the fun; at TT, 18 hours be¬
fore him; at L, 20 hours; at M, 22 ; and at^, equal¬
ly with the fun again.
Thus it is plain, that an abfolute turn of the earth on
its axis (which is always completed when any particular
meridian comes to be parallel to its fituation at any time of
the day before) never brings the fame meridian round from
the fun to the fun again ; but that the earth requires as
much more than one turn on its axis to finifii a natural-
day, as it has gone forward in that time; which, at a,.
mea»
A S T R C
mean ftate, is a 365th part of a circle. Hence, in 365
days the earth turns 366 times round its axis; and
therefore, as a turn of the earth on its axis completes
a fydereal day, there muft be one fydereal day more in
a year than the number of folar days, be the number
what it will, on the earth, or any other planet. One
turn being loft with refpeit to the number of folar days
in a year, by the planets going round the fun ; juft as
it would be loft to a traveller, who, in going round the
earth, would lofe one day by following the apparent
diurnal motion of the fun ; and confequently would
reckon one day lefs at his return (let him take what
time he would to go round the earth) than thofe who
remained all the while at the place from which they fet
out. So, if there were two earths revolving equably
on their axes, and if one remained at A until the other
travelled round the fun from A to A again, that earth
which kept its place at A would have its folar and fyde-
rial days always of the fame length ; and fo would have
one folar day more than the other at its return. Hence,
if the earth turned but once round its axis in a year,
and if that turn was made the fame way as the earth
goes round the fun, there would be continual day on
one fide of the earth, and continual night on the other.
Chap. XL Of the Equation of Time.
The earth’s motion on its axis being perfedlly uni¬
form, and equal at all times of the year, the fydereal
days are always precifely of an equal length; and fo
would the folar or natural days be, if the earth’s orbit
were a perfedt circle, and its axis perpendicular to its
orbit. But the earth’s diurnal motion on an incli¬
ned axis, and its annual motion in an elliptic orbit,
caufe the funs apparent motion in the heavens to be
unequal: For fometimes he revolves from the meridian
10 the meridian again in fomewhat lefs than 24 hours,
(hewn by a well-regulated clock ; and at other times in
fomewhat more : So that the time Ihewn by an equal
going clock and a true fun-dial is never the fame but on
the 15th of April, the 16th of June, the 31ft of Auguft,
and the 24th of December. The clock, if it goes equal¬
ly and true all the year round, will be before the fun
from the 24th of December till the 15th of April; from
that time till the 16th of June the fun will be before the
clock; from the 16th of June till the 31ft of Auguft,
the clock will be again before the fun; and from thence
to the 24th of December the fun will be fafter than the
clock.
The eafieft and moft expeditious way of drawing a me¬
ridian line is this : Make four or five concentric circles,
about a quarter of an inch from one another, on a. flat
board, about a foot in breadth ; and let the outmoft cir¬
cle be but little lefs than the board will contain. Fix a
pin perpendicularly in the centre, and of fuch a length
that its whole ftiadow may fall within the innermoft cir¬
cle, for at leaft four hours in the middle of the day..
The pin ought to be about an eighth part of an inch
thick, and to have a round blunt point. The board
feeing fet exactly level in a place where the fun Ihines,.
N O M Y. <59
fuppofe from eight in the morning till four in the after*
noon, about which hours the end of the lhadow ftiould
fall without all the circles ; watch the times in the
forenoon, when the extremity of the fhortening lhadow
juft touches the feveral circles, and there make marks.
Then, in the afternoon of the fame day, watch the
lengthening lhadow, and where its end touches the fever
ral circles in going over them, make marks alfo. Laft-
ly, with a pair of compafles, find exaftly the middle
point between the two marks on any circle, and draw a
llraight line from the centre to that point; which line
will be covered at noon by the lhadow of a fmall upright
wire, which Ihould be put in the place of the pin. The
reafon for drawing feveral circles is, that in cafe one part
of the day Ihould prove clear, and the other part fome¬
what cloudy, if you mifs the time when the point of the
lhadow Ihould touch one circle, you may perhaps catch
it in touching another. The bell time for drawing a me¬
ridian line, in this manner, is about the fummer folftice;
becaufe the fun changes his declination lloweft, and his
altitude fafteft in the longeft days.
If the cafement of a window, on which the fun Ihines
at noon, be quite upright, you may draw a line along
the edge of its lhadow on the floor, when the lhadow of
the pin is exa&ly on the meridian line of the board ; and
as the motion of the lhadow of the cafement will be
much more fenfible on the floor, than that of the lhadow
of the pin on the board, you may know to a few fe-
conds when it touches the meridian line on the floor j
and fo regulate your clock for the day of obfervation by
that line and any good equation table.
As the equation of time, or difference between the
time Ihewn by a well-regulated clock and a true fun-dial,
depends upon two caufes, namely, the obliquity of the
ecliptic, and the unequal motion of the earth in it, we
lhall firft explain the effects of thefe caufes feparately
confidered, and then the united effefts refulting from
their combination.
The earth’s motion on its axis being perfedtly equable,
or always at the fame rate, and the plane of the equator
being perpendicular to its axis, it is evident, that in equal
times equal portions of the equator pafs over the meri¬
dian ; and fo would equal portions of the ecliptic, if it
were parallel to or coincident with the-equator. But,
as the ecliptic is oblique to the equator, the equable
motion of the earth carries, unequal portions of the e-
cliptic over the meridian in equal times,, the difference
being proportionate to the obliquity ; and, as fome paits-
of the ecliptic are much more oblique than others, thofe
differences are unequal among themfelves.. Therefore,
if two funs ftiould ftart either, from the beginning of Aries
or Libra, and continue to move through equal arcs in e-
qual times,, one in the equator, and the other in the e-
cliptic, the equatoreal fun would always run to the me¬
ridian in 24 hours time, as meafured by a well-regula¬
ted clock ; but the fun in the ecliptic would return to
the meridian fometimes fooner, and fometimes later
than the equatoreal fun ; and only at the fame moments
with him on four days of the year; namely, the 20th
of March, when the fun enters Aries; the 21ft of June,
when he enters Cancer; the 23d of September, when he
en ter as
4^0 ASTRO
enters Libra; and the 21ft of December, when he en¬
ters Capricorn. But, as there is only one fun, and his
apparent motion is always on the ecliptic, let us hence¬
forth call him the real fun; and the other, which is fup-
pofed to move in the. equator, the fittitious; to which
lalt, the motion of a well-regulated clock always an-
fwers.
In PlateXLII. fig. 4. let Z°fz^: be the earth, ZFRz
its axis, abede <bc. the equator, ABODE 8cc. the northern
half of the ecliptic from qp or on the fide of the globe
next the eye ; and MNOP See. the fouthern half on
the oppofite fide from ^ to cf>. Let the points at
ABCD'EF See. quite round from CV’ to qp again bound
equal portions of the ecliptic, gone through in equal
times by the real fun ; and thofe at abedef fee. equal
portions of the equator, deferibed in equal times by the
fiditious fun ; and let Zqpz be the meridian.
As the real fun moves obliquely in the ecliptic, and
the fi&itious fun direftly in the equator, with refpeft to
the meridian; a degree, or any number of degrees, be¬
tween qp and F on the ecliptic, muft be nearer the me¬
ridian Z'Y’z, than a degree, or any correfponding num¬
ber of degrees on the equator from qp to /'j and the
more fo, as they are the more oblique : And therefore
the true fun comes fooner to the meridian every day
whilfl: he is in the quadrant qp F, than the fiftitious fun
does in the quadrant qp /; for which reafon, the folar
noon precedes noon by the clock, until the real fun
comes to F, and the fidtitious to f; which two points,
being equidiftant from the meridian, both funs will come
to it precifely at noon by the clock.
Whilfi: the real fun deferibes the fecond quadrant of the
ecliptic FGHIKL from F \.o Ah, he comes later to
the meridian every day, than the fidtitious fun moving
through the fecond quadrant of the equator from f to
jeu • for the points at CHIK and L, being farther from
the meridian than their correfponding points At ghik and
1, they muft be later of coming to it: And as both funs.
come at the fame moment to the point they come
to the meridian at the moment of noon by the clock.
In departing from Libra, through the third quadrants,
the real fun going through MNOPQ_ towards rs at R,
and the fidtitious fun through mnopq towards r, the
former comes to the meridian every day fooner than the
latter, until the real fun comes to rs, and the fidtitious
to r, and then they both come to the meridian at the
fame time.
Laftly, as the real fun moves equably through STUVW,
from rs towards ^; and the fidlitious fun thro’ stuww,
from r towards qp ; the former comes later every day
to the meridian than the latter, until they both arrive at
the point qp, and then they make noon at the fame time
with the clock.
This part of the equation of time may perhaps be
fomewhat difficult to underftand by a figure, becaufe
both halves of the ecliptic feem to be on the fame fide
of the globe; but it may be made very eafy to any per-
fon who has a real globe before him, by putting fmall
patches on every tenth or fifteenth degree, both of the
equator and ecliptic, beginning at Aries qp; and then,
turning the ball ilowly round weftward, he will fee all
N O M Y.
the patches from Aries to Cancer come to the brazen me*
ridian fooner than the correfponding patches on the equa*
tor; all thofe from Cancer to Libra will come latter to
the meridian than their correfponding patches on the e-
quator; thofe from Libra to Capricorn fooner, and
thofe from Capricorn to Aries latter: And the patches
at the beginnings of Aries, Cancer, Libra, and Capri¬
corn, being either on, or even with thofe on the equa¬
tor, ffiew that the two funs either meet there, or are e-
ven with one another, and fo come to the meridian at
the fame moment.
Let us fuppofe that there are two little balls moving
equably round a celeftial globe by clock-work, one al¬
ways keeping in the ecliptic, and gilt with gold, to re-
prefent the real fun ; and the other keeping in the equa¬
tor, and filvered, to reprefent the fi&itious fun: And
that whilft thefe balls move once round the globe, ac¬
cording to the order of figns, the clock turns the globe
366 times round its axis weftward. The ftars will make
366 diurnal revolutions from the brafen meridian to it a-
gain; and the two balls reprefenting the real and fic¬
titious fun always going farther eaftward from any gi¬
ven ftar, will come later than it to the meridian every fol¬
lowing day; and each ball will make 365 revolutions to
the meridian; coming equally to it at the beginnings of
Aries, Cancer, Libra, and Capricorn: But in every o-
ther point of the ecliptic, the gilt ball will come either
fooner or latter to the meridian than the filver ball, like
the patches above mentioned.
This would be a pretty enough way of ffiewing the rea¬
fon why any given ftar, which, on a certain day of the
year, comes to the meridian with the fun, pafles over it
fo much fooner every following day, as on that day
twelvemonth to come to the meridian with the fun again;
and alfo to ffiew the reafon why the real fun comes to
the meridian fometimes fooner, fometimes later, than it
is noon by the clock; and, on four days of the year, at
the fame time; whilft the fiAitious fun always comes to
the meridian when it is twelve at noon by the clock.
This would be no difficult talk for an artift to perform ;
for the gold ball might be carried round the ecliptic y
a wire from its north pole, and the filver ball .round
the equator by a wire from its fouth pole, by mean of
a few wheels to each.
It is plain, that if the ecliptic were more obliquely po-
fited to the equator, as the doted circle qPXiG:* the
equal divifions from CV5 to X would come ftill fooner to
the meridian Zoqf than thofe marked ABCD and E do •
for two divifions containing 30 degrees, from CV° to the
fecond dot, a little ffiort of the figure 1, come fooner to
the meridian than one divifion containing only 15 degrees
from to A does, as the ecliptic now Hands : and thofe
of the fecond quadrant from X to would be fo much
later. The third quadrant would be as the firft, and
the fourth as the fecond. And it is likewife plain, that
where the ecliptic is moft oblique, namely, about Aries and
Libra, the difference would be greateft; and lead about
Cancer and Capricorn, where the obliquity is leaft
Having explained one caufe of the difference of time
(hewn by a well-regulated clock and a true fun dial;
and confidered the fun, not the earth, as moving in the
ecliptic
ASTRO
ecliptic : We now proceed to explain the other caufe of
this difference, namely, the inequality of the fun’s ap¬
parent motion, which is flowed in the fummer, when the
the fun is fartheft from the earth, and fwifteft in winter
when he is neareft to it. But the earth’s motion on its
axis is equable all the year round, and is performed
from weft to eaft; which is the way that the fun appears
to change his place in the ecliptic.
If the fun’s motion were equable in the ecliptic, the
whole difference, between the equal time as (hewn by a
clock, and the unequal time as (hewn by the fun, would
arife from the obliquity of the ecliptic. But the fun’s
motion fometimes exceeds a degree in 24 hours, though
generally it is lefs: And when his motion is floweft, any
particular meridian will revolve fooner to him than when
his motion is quickeft; for it will overtake him in lefs
time when he advances a lefs fpace than when he moves
through a larger.
Now, if there were two funs moving in the plane of
the ecliptic, fo as to go round it in a year ; the one defea¬
ting an equal arc every 24 hours, and the other defea¬
ting fometimes a lefs arc 24 hours, and at other times a
larger, gaining at one time of the year what it loft at
the oppofite; it is evident that either of thefe funs would
come fooner or latter to the meridian than the other,
as it happened to be behind or before the other: and
when they were both in conjunction, they would come to
the meridian at the fame moment.
As the real fun moves unequably in the ecliptic, let us
fuppofe a fictitious fun to move equably in a circle coinci¬
dent with the plane of the ecliptic. In Plate XLIII. fig. 1.
let ABCD be the ecliptic or orbit in which the real fun
moves, and the doted circle abed the imaginary orbit of the
fictitious fun; each going round in a year according to the
order of letters, or from weft to eaft. Let HIKL be the
earth turning round its axis the fame way every 24 hours ;
and fuppofe both funs to ftart from A and a, in a right
line with the plane of the meridian EH, at the fame mo¬
ment ; the real fun at A being then at his greateft di-
ftance from the earth, at which time his motion is
floweft ; and the fictitious fun at a, whofe motion is al¬
ways equable, becaufe his diftance from the earth is fup-
pofed to be always the fame. In the time that the meridian
revolves from H to H again, according to the order of
the letters HIKL, the real fun has moved from A to
and the fictitious with a quicker motion from a to f,
through a larger arc . Therefore, the meridian EH will
revolve fooner from H to h under the real fun at F, than
from H to k under the fictitious fun at f\ and confequent-
ly it will then be noon by the fun-dial fooner than by
the clock.
As the real fun moves from A towards C, the fwift-
nefs of his motion increafes all the way to C, where it is
at the quickeft. But notwithftanding this, the fictitious
fun gains fo much upon the real, foon after his departing
from A, that the inereafing velocity of the real fun does
not bring him up with the equally moving fictitious fun
till the former comes to C, and the latter to c, when each
has gone half round its refpeCtive orbit; and then being in
conjunction, the meridian EH relvolving to EK comes
Vol. I. No. 2Q- 3
N O M y. 461
to both funs at the fame time, and therefore it is noon
by them both at the fame moment.
But the increafing velocity of the real fun, now be¬
ing at the quickeft, carries him before the fictitious one ;
and therefore, the fame meridian will come to the ficti¬
tious fun fooner than to the real : For, whilft the ficti¬
tious fun moves from c to g, the real fun moves through
a greater arc from C7 to C ; confequently the point K has
its noon by the clock when it comes to k, but not its
noon by the fun till it come to /. And although the velo¬
city of the real fun diminiihes all the way from C to A,
and the fictitious fun by an equable motion is ftill coming
nearer to the real fun, yet they are not in conjunction till
the one comes to A and the other to a; and then it is
noon by them both at the fame moment.
Thus it appears, that the folar noon is always later
than noon by the clock, whilft the fun goes from C to A\
fooner whilft he goes from A to C; and at thefe points
the fiin and clock being equal, it is noon by them both
at the fame moment.
The point A is called the fun’s apogee, becaufe
when he is there he is at his greateft diftance from
the earth; the point C his perigee, becaufe when in it
he is at his lead diftance from the earth ;• and a right
line, as AEC, drawn through the earth’s centre, from
one of thefe points to the other, is called the line of the
apfides.
The diftance that the fun has gone in any time from
his apogee (not the diftance he has to go to it, though
ever fo little) is called his mean anomaly, and is reckon¬
ed in figns and degrees, allowing 30 degrees to a fign.
Thus, when the fun has gone, fuppofe 174 degrees from
his apogee at A, he is faid to Ire 5 figns 24 degrees from
it, which is his mean anomaly: And when he is gone,
fuppofe 3 y 5 degrees from his apogee, he is faid to be 11
figns 2y degrees from it, although he be but 5 degrees
flrort of A in coming round to it again.
From w'hat was faid above, it appears, than when the
fun’s anomaly is lefs than 6 figns, that is, when he is
any where between A and C, in the half ABC of his
orbit, the folar noon precedes the clock noon; bst when
his anomaly is more than 6 figns, that is, when he is a-
ny where between C and A, in the half CD A of his
orbit, the clock noon precedes the folar. When his ano¬
maly is o figns o degrees, that is, when he is in his a-
pogee %.t A \ or 6 figns o degrees, which is when he is
in his perigee at C; he comes to the meridian at the mo*
ment that the fiftitious fun does, and then it is noon by
them both at the fame inftant.
The obliquity of the ecliptic to the equator, which is
the firft mentioned caufe of the equation of time, would
make the fun and clocks agree on four days of the year;
which are, when the fun enters Aries, Cancer, Libra,
and Capricorn: But the other caufe, now explained,
would make the fun and clocks equal only twice a year;
that is, when the fun is in his apogee and perigee. Con¬
fequently, when thefe two points fall in the beginnings
of Cancer and Capricorn, or of Aries and Libra, they
concur in making the fun and clocks equal in thefe points.
But the apogee at prefent is in the 9th degree of Cancer,
f 6 A and
5*2 ASTRO
and the perigee in the 9th degree of Capricorn, and there¬
fore the fun and docks cannot be equal about the begin¬
ning of thefe figns, nor at any time of the year, except
when the fwiftnefs or flownefs of equation refulting from
one caufe juft balances the flownefs or fwiftnefs ariiing
from the other.
Chap. XII. Of the Precejfon of the
Equinoxes.
It is a known fadt,. that there is a greater quantity
of matter accumulated all round the equatoreal. parts of
the earth than any where elfe.
The fun and moon, by attra&ing this redundancy of
matter, bring the equator fooner under them in every
return towards it, than if there was no fuch accumula¬
tion. Therefore, if the fun fets out, as from any ftar,
or other fixed point in the heavens, the moment when
he is departing from the equinodtial or from either tropic,
he will come to the fame equinox or tropic again 20
min. 17-ifec. of time, or 50 feconds of a degree, be¬
fore he completes his courfe, fo as to arrive at the
fame fixed ftar or point from whence he fet out. For,
the equinodlial points recede 50 feconds of a degree
weftward every year, contrary to the fun’s annual pro-
greffive motion.
When the fun arrives at the fame equinodtial or folfti-
tial point, he finiftres what we call the tropical year ;
which, by obfervation, is found to contain 365 days
5 hours 48 minutes 57 feconds : And, when he ar¬
rives at the fame fixed ftar again, as feen from the earth,
he completes the fyderealyear, which contains 365 days
6 hours 9 minutes iqi feconds. The fydereal year is
therefore 20 minutes 174 feconds longer than the folar
or tropical year; and 9 minutes 14^ feconds longer
than the Julian or civil year, which we ftate at 365 days
N O M Y.
6 hours: So that the civil year is almoft a mean be¬
twixt the fydereal and tropical.
As the fun defcribes the whole ecliptic, or 360 de¬
grees, in a tropical year, he moves 59 minutes 8 fe¬
conds of a degree every day at a mean rate ; and con-
fequemly 50 feconds of a degree in 20 minutes 174- fe¬
conds of time : Therefore, he will arrive at the fame e-
quinox or folftice when he is 50 feconds of a degree
fhort of the fame ftar or fixed point in the heavens from
which he fet out in the year before. So that, with re-
fpeft to the fixed ftars, the fun and equinodtial points
fall back (as it were) 30 degrees in 2160 years; which
will make the ftars appear to have gone 30 degrees
forward, with refpedt to the figns of the ecliptic in that
time : For the fame figns always keep in the fame points
of the ecliptic, without regard to the conftellations.
To explain this by a figure, (Plate XLIII. fig. 1.) let
the fun be in conjunction with a fixed ftar at S, fuppofe
in the 30th degree of # on the 21ft of May 1756. Then,
making 2160 revolutions through the ecliptic VJVX, at the
end of fo many fydereal. years, he will be found again at
S: But at the end of fo many Julian years, he will be
found at M, fhort of S; and at the end of fo many
tropical years, be will be found fhort of M in the 30th
degrees of Taurus at T, which has receded back from
S to T in that time, by the precelfion of the equinodtial
points 'V1 Aries and ^ Libra. The arc ST will be equal
to the amount of the preceflion of the equinox in 2160
years, at the rate of 50 feconds of a degree, or 20 mi¬
nutes 174 feconds of time, annually : This, in fo many
years, makes 30 days io’J-hours ; which is the difference
between 2160 fydereal and tropical years : And the arc
MT will be equal to the fpace moved through by the
fun in 2160 times 11 minutes 3 feconds, or 16 days
13 hours 48 minutes, which is the difference between
2160 Julian and tropical years.
y*
ASTRONOMY.
^Table /hewing the PreceJJion of the Equinottial Points in the Hea¬
vens, hath in Motion and Time; and the Anticipation of the Equi¬
noxes on Earth.
Julian
years.
70
80
90
100
200
300
400
5<5o
606
700
800
900
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
6000
7000
8000
9000
IOOOO
20000
| 2SQ2Q
Procellion of the Equinoxial Points in
the Heavens.
5
5 SO
6 40
7 30
8 20
o 16 40
025 o
o 33 20
o 41 40
o 50 o
58 20
6 40
ij o
23 20
46 40
4 10 o
5 33 20
6 56 40
8 20 o
9 43 20
o n 6 40
o 12 30 o
o 13 53 20
o 27 46 40
1 1x 40 o
1 25 33 20
2 9 26 40
2 23 20 o
3 7 13 20
321 6 4O
4500
4 18 53 20
9 7 46 40
Time.
Days. H. M. S.
o 20 i7t
o 40 35
1 o 52t
1 21 10
1 41 274
2 1 45
2 22 2t
2 42 20
3 2 374-
3 22 55
6 45 50
xo 8 45
13 31 40
16 54 35
20 17 30
23 40 25
3 3 20
6 26 13
9 49 10
19 38 20
5 27 30
15 16 40
1 5 50
10 55 o
20 44 10
11 6 33 20
12 16 22 30
14 2 ii 40
28 4 23 20
42 6 35 o
56 8 46 40
70 10 58 20
84 13 10 o
98 15 21 40
112 17 33 20
126 19 45 o
140 21 56 '40
281 19 53 20
365 600
Anticipation of the
Equinoxes on the
Earth.
D. H. M. S.
0113
o 22 6
o 33 9
o 44 12
° 55 15
6 18
17 21
28 24
39 27
50 30
11
3 41 2 3 o
5 31 30
7 22 o
9 !2 30
3 o
o 12 53 30
o 14 44 o
o 16 34 30
o 18 25 o
I 12 50 O
2 7 15
3 1 40
3 20 5
4 14 3°
5 8 55
6 3 20
6 21 45
7 16 10
15 8 26
23 o 30
30 16 40
38 8 50
46 1 o
53 17 10
61 9 20
69 1 30 o
76 17 40 o
153 II 20 o
198 21 36 O
4%
From
4^4 ASTRO
From the {hifting of the equino&ial points, and with
them all the figns of the ecliptic, it follows, that thofe
ftars which, in the infancy of aflronomy, were in Aries,
are now got into Taurus ; thofe of Taurus into Gemini,
fyc. Hence likewife it is, that the ftars which rofe or
fet at any particular feafon of the year, in the times of
Hefiod, Eudoxius, Virgil, Pliny, &c. by no means an-
fwer at this time to their defcriptions. The preceding
table (hews the quantity of this Ihifting both in the hea¬
vens and on the earth, for any nnmber of years to
25,920, which compleats the grand celeftial period;
within which any number and its quantity is eafily found,
N O M Y.
as in the following example, for 5763 years; which, at
the autumnal equinox, A. D. 1756, is thought to be the
age of the world. So that with regard to the fixed
ftars, the equinodlial points in the heavens have receded
2s 20° 2r 30” fince the creation; which is as much as
the fun moves in 8id 5h om 52s. And fince that time,
or in 5763 years, the equinoxes with us have fallen back
44d 5h 2 ira 9s; hence, reckoning from the time of the
Julian equinox, A. D. 1756, viz. Sept, nth, it ap¬
pears, that the autumnal equinox at the creation was on
the 25 th of Oftober.
Julian
years.
5000
700
60
3
5763
Preceflion of the Equinoftial Points in
the Heavens.
9 26 40
9 43 20
o 50 o
o 2 30
2 20 2 30
D. H. M. S.
70 10 58 20
9 20 44 10
o 20 17 30
O I o $2
81
o 52
Anticipation of
the Equinoxes
on the Earth.
D. H. M. S
38 8 50
5 8 55
on 3
o o 33 9
44 5 21 9
The anticipation of the equinoxes, and confequently
of the feafons, is by no means owing to the precefiion of
the equinoftial and folftitial points in the heavens, (which
can only affeft the apparent motions, places, and decli¬
nations of the fixed ftars), but to the difference between
the civil and folar year, which is 11 minutes 3 feconds;
the civil year containing 365 days 6 hours, and the fo¬
lar year 365 days 5 hours 48 minutes 57 feconds.
The above 11 minutes 3 feconds, by which the civil
or Julian year exceeds the folar, amounts to 1 x days in
J433 years; and fo much our feafons have fallen back
with refpedt to the days of the months, fince the time
of the Nicene Council in A. D. 325, and therefore in
order to bring back all the fafts and feftivals to the days
then fettled, it was requifite to fupprefs 11 nominal days.
And that the fame feafons might be kept to the fame
times of the year for the future, to leave out the biffex-
tile day in February at the end of every century of years
not divifible by 4 ; reckoning them only common years,
as the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries, viz. the years
1700, 1800, 1900, <bc. becaufe a day intercalated e-
very fourth year was too much, and retaining the biffex-
tile-day at the end of thofe centuries of years which are
divifible by 4, as the 16th, 20th, and 24th centuries,
viz. the years 1600, 2000, 2400, <bc. Otherwife, in
length of time, the feafons would be quite reverfed with
regard to the months of the year; though it would have
required near 23,783 years to have brought about fuch
a total change. If the earth had made exa&ly 3654
diurnal rotations on its axis, whilft it revolved from any
equino&ial or folftitial point to the fame again, the civil
and folar years would always have kept pace together,
and the ftyle would never have needed any alteration.
Having already mentioned the caufe of the preceflion
of the equino&ial points in the heavens, which occafions
a flow deviation of the earth’s axis from its parallelifm,
and thereby a change of the declination of the ftars from
the equator, together with a flow apparent motion of
the ftars forward with refpedt to the figns of the eclip¬
tic; wefliall now deferibe the phenomena by a diagram.
In Plate XLIII. fig. 2. let NZSVL be the earth,
SON A its axis produced to the ftarry heavens, and ter¬
minating in A, the prefent north pole of the heavens,
which is vertical to TV-the north pole of the earth. Let
EO^_bt the equator, T2LZ the tropic of Cancer, and
V'Trs the tropic of Capricorn ; VOZ the ecliptic, and BO
its axis, both which are immoveable among the ftars.
But as the equinodlial points recede in the ecliptic, the
earth’s axis SON\% in motion upon the earth’s centre 0,
in fuch a manner as to deferibe the double cone NOn and
and SOs, round the axis of the ecliptic BO, in the time
that the equinodlial points move quite round the ecliptic,
which is 25,920 years; and in that length of time, the
north pole of the earth’s axis produced, deferibes the
circle ABCDA in the ftarry heavens, round the pole of
the ecliptic, which keeps immoveable in the centre of
that circle. The earth’s axis being 234 degrees inclined
to the axis of the ecliptic, the circle ADCDA, deferi-
bed by the north pole of the earth’s axis produced to A,
is 47 degrees in diameter, or double the inclination of
the earth’s axis. In confequence of this, the point A,
which at prefent is the north pole of the heavens, and
near to a ftar of the fecond magnitude in the tail of the
conftellation called the Little Bear, muft be deferted by
the earth’s axis, which moving backwards a degree every
72 years, will be dire&ed towards the ftar or point B in
6480
A S T R C
6480 years hence ; and in double of that time, or 12,960
years, it will be dire&ed towards the ftar or point 67;
which will then be the north pole of the heavens, al¬
though it is at prefent 8^ degrees fouth of the zenith of
London L. The prefent pofition of the 4quator EO£>_y
will then be changed into eOq; the tropic of Cancer
Ts&Z, into Vt2B ; and the tropic of Capricorn V'Trs,
into trsZ; as is evident by the figure. And the fun,
in the f^me part of the heavens where he is now over the
earthly tropic of Capricorn, and makes the Ihorteft days
and longed nights in the northern hemifphere, will then
be over the earthly tropic of Cancer, and make the days
longed and nights Ihorted, So that it will require
12,960 years yet more, or 25,920 from the prefent
time, to bring the north pole N quite round, fo as to be
dire<5ted towards that point of the heavens which is ver¬
tical to it at prefent. And then, and not till then, the
fame dars which at prefent defcribe the equator, tropics,
and polar circles, he. by the earth’s diurnal motion,
will defcribe them over again.
Chap. XIII. The moor?s furface mountain¬
ous : Her fha/es deferibed: Her path and
the paths of Jupiter's moons delineated:
The proportions of the diameters of their or¬
bits, and thofe of Saturrts moons, to each
other, and to the diameter of the Sun.
By looking at the moon with an ordinary telefcope,
we perceive that her furface is diverfified with long tradls
of prodigious high mountains and deep cavities. Some
of her mountains, by comparing their height with her
diameter (which is 2180 miles) are found to be three
times higher than the highed hills on our earth. This
ruggednefs of the moon’s furface is of great ufe to us,
by refle&ing the fun’s light to all fides; for if the
moon were fmooth and polilhed like a looking-glafs, or
covered with water, (he could never didribute the fun’s
light all round ; only in fome pofitions (he would fhew us
his image no bigger than a point, but with fuch a ludre
as would be hurtful to our eyes.
The moon’s furface being fo uneven, many have won¬
dered why her edge appears not jagged, as well as the
curve bounding the light and dark places. But if we
confider, that what we call the edge of the moon’s difle
is not a Angle line fet round with mountains, in which
cafe it would appear irregularly indented, but a large
zone having many mountains lying behind one another
from the obferver’s eye, we fhall find that the mountains
in fome rows will be oppofite to the vales in others, and
fo fill up the inequalities as to make her appear quite
round; jud as when one looks at an orange, although
its roughnefs be very difcernible on the fide next the eye,
efpecially. if the fun or a candle Ihines obliquely on that
fide, yet the line terminating the vifible part dill appears
fmooth and even.
As the fun can only enlighten that half of the earth
which is at any moment turned towards him, and being
withdrawn from the oppofite half, leaves it in darknefs j
Vol. I. No. 20. 3
» N O M Y. 465
fo he likewife doth to the moon; only with this differ¬
ence, that the earth being furrounded by an atmofphere,
and the moon having none, we have twilight after the
fun fets; but the lunar inhabitants have an immediate
tranfition from the brighted fun-lhine to the blacked
darknefs. For, (Plate XLIII. fig. 3.) let thrsnu be
the earth, and ABCDEFGH the moon in eight different
parts of her orbit. As the earth turns round its axis
from wed to ead, when any place comes to / the twilight
begins there, and when it revolves from thence to r the
the fun S rifes ; when the place comes to s the fun fets,
and when it comes to the twilight ends. But as the
moon turns round her axis, which is only once a-month,
the moment that any point of her furface comes to r
(fee the moon at G j the fun rifes there without any pre¬
vious warning by twilight; and when the fame point
comes to t the fun fets, and that point goes into darknefs
as black as at midnight.
The moon being an opaque fpherical body, (for her
hills take off no more from her roundnefs than the ine¬
qualities on the furface of an orange takes off from its
roundnels), we can only fee that part of the enlightened
half of her which is towards the earth. And therefore,
when the moon is at A, in conjundtion with the fun S,
her dark half is towards the earth, and (he difappears,
as at a, there being no light on that half to render it vi¬
fible. When fhe comes to her fird oftant at B, or has
gone an eighth part of her orbit from her conjundtion, a
quarter of her enlightened fide is towards the earth, and
Ihe appears horned, as at b. When (he has gone a quar¬
ter of her orbit from between the earth and fun to dT,
fhe fliews us one half of her enlightened fide, as at c,
and we fay, (he is a quarter old. At D in her fecond
odtant, and by fhewing us more of her enlightened fide
(he appears gibbous, as at d. At E her whole enlight¬
ened fide is towards the earth, and therefore (he ap¬
pears round, as at e, when we fay, it is full moon.
In her third odtant at F, part of her dark fide being to¬
wards the earth, (he again appears gibbous, and is on
the decreafe, as at f. At G we fee jult one half of het
enlightened fide, and (he appears half decreafed, or in her
third quarter, as at g. At H we only fee a quarter of
her enlightened fide, being in her fourth odtant, where
(he appears horned, as at h. And at A, having corn-
pleated her courfe from the fun to the fun again, (he dif¬
appears, and we fay, it is new moon. Thus in going
from A to E, the moon feeras continually to increafe ;
and in going from E to A, to decreafe in the fame pro¬
portion ; having like phafes at equal diftances from A or
E, but as feen from the fun S, (he is always full.
The moon appears not perfedtly round when (he is full
in the higheft or lowed part of her orbit, becaufe we
have not a full view of her enlightened fide at that time.
When full in the higheft part of her orbit, a fmall defi¬
ciency appears on her lower edge; and the contrary when
full in the lowed part of her orbit.
It is plain by the figure, that when the moon changes
to the earth, the earth appears full to the moon; and
vice verfa. For when the moon is at A, new to the
earth, the whole enlightened fide of the earth is towards
the moon; and when the moon is at F, full to the canb,
| 6 B its
^j.66 ASTRO
its dark fide is towards her. Hence a new moon anfwers
to a full earth, and a full moon to a new earth. The
quarters are alfo reverfed to each other.
Between the third qaarter and change, the moon is
frequently vifible in the forenoon, even when the fun
(hines ; and then (he affords us an opportunity of feeing
a very agreeable appearance, where-ever we find a glo¬
bular ftone above the level of the eye, as fuppofe on the
top of a gate. For, if the fun fiiines on the ftone, and
we place ourfelves fo as the upper part of the fun may
juft feem to touch the point of the moon’s lowermoft
horn, we ftiall then fee the enlightened part of the ftone
txattly of the fame lhape with the moon, horned as (he
is, and inclining the fame way to the horizon. The
reafon is plain, for the fun enlightens the ftone the fame
way as he does the moon ; and both being globes, when
we put ourfelves into the above fituation, the moon and
ftone have the fame pofition to our eyes, and therefore
we muft fee as much of the illuminated part of the one
as of the other.
The pofition of the moon’s cufps, or a right line
touching the points of her horns, is very differently in¬
clined to the horizon at different hours of the fame days
of her age. Sometimes fhe ftands, as it were, upright
on her lower horn, and then fuch a line is perpendicular
to the horizon: when this happens, fhe is in what the
aftronomers call the nonagefimal degree, which is the
higheft point of the ecliptic above the horizon at that
time, and is 90 degrees from both fides of the horizon,
where it is then cut by the ecliptic. But this never hap¬
pens when the moon is on the meridian, except when fhe
is at the very beginning of Cancer or Capricorn.
The inclination of that part of the ecliptic to the ho¬
rizon in which the moon is at any time when horned,
may be known by the pofition of her horns; for a right
line touching their points is perpendicular to the ecliptic.
And as the angle that the moon’s orbit makes with the
ecliptic can never raife her above, nor deprefs her below
the ecliptic, more than two minutes of a degree, as feen
from the fun, it can have no ferifible effeft upon the pofi¬
tion of her horns. Therefore, if a quadrant be held
up, fo as one of its edges may feem to touch the moon’s
horns, the graduated fide being kept towards the eye,
and as far from the eye as it can be conveniently held,
the arc between the plumb-line and that edge of the qua¬
drant which feems to touch the moon’s horns, will fhew
the inclination of that part of the ecliptic to the hori¬
zon. And the arc between the other edge of the qua¬
drant and plumb line will fhew the inclination of the
moon’s horns to the horizon..
The moon generally appears as large as the fun ; for the
angle vkA, (Plate XL1IL fig. 3.) under which the moon
is feen from the earth, is the fame with the angle LkM,
under which the fun is feen from it. And therefore the
moon may hide the fun’s whole difk from us, as fhe fome-
times does in folar eclipfes. The reafon why fhe does not
eclipfe the fun at every change fhall be explained afterwards.
If the moon were farther from the earth, as at a, fhe could
never hide the whole of the fun from us ; for then fhe
would appear under the angle NkO, eclipfing only that
part of the fun which lies between N and 0: were fhe
N O M Y.
ftill further from the earth, as at X, fhe would appear
under the fmall angle TkW, like a fpot on the fun, hi¬
ding only the part TIV from our fight.
The moon turns round her axis in the time that fha
goes round her orbit; which is evident from hence, that
a fpe&ator at reft, without the periphery of the moon’s
orbit, would fee all her fides turned regularly towards
him in that time. She turns round her axis from any
ftar to the fame ftar again in 27 days 8 hours; from the
fun to the fun again in 29^ days : the former is the length
of the fydereal day, and the latter the length of her fo¬
lar day. A body moving round the fun would have a
folar day in every revolution, without turning on its axis,
the fame as if it had kept all the while at reft, and the
fun moved round it; but without turning round its axis
it could never have one fydereal day, becaufe it would
always keep the fame fide towards any given ftar.
If the earth had no annual motion, the moon would go
round it fo as to compleat a lunation, a fydereal, and a
folar day, all in the fame time. But> becaufe the earth
goes forward in its orbit, while the moon goes round the
earth in her orbit, the moon muft go as much more than
round her orbit from change to change in compleating a
folar day, as the earth has gone forward in its orbit du¬
ring that time, /. e. almoft a twelfth part of a circle.
The moon’s periodical and fynodical revolution may
be familiarly reprefented by the motions of the hour and
minute-hands of a watch round its dial-plate, which is
divided into 12 equal parts or hours, as the ecliptic is
divided into 12 figns, and the year into 12 months.
Let us fuppofe thefe 12 hours to be 12 figns, the hour-
hand the fun, and the minute-hand the moon ; then
will the former go round once in a year, and the latter
once in a month; but the moon, or minute-hand, muft
go more than round from any point of the circle where it
was laft conjoined with the fun, or hour-hand, to over¬
take it again : For the hour-hand being in motion, can
never be overtaken by the minute-hand at that point
from which they ftarted at their laft conjunction.
If the earth had no annual motion, the moon’s mo¬
tion round the earth, and her track in abfolute fpace,
would be always the fame. But as the earth and moon
move round the fun, the moon’s real path in the hea¬
vens is very different from her vifible path round the
earth; the latter being in a progrelfive circle, and the
former in a curve of different degrees of concavity, which
would always be the fame in the fame parts of the hea¬
vens, if the moon performed a complete number of lu¬
nations in a year without any thing over.
Let a nail in the end of the axle of a chariot-wheel
reprefent the earth, and a pin in the nave the moon ; if
the body of the chariot be propped up fo as to keep that
wheel from touching the ground, and the wheel be then
turned round by hand, the pin will defcribe a circle
both round the nail, and in the fpace it moves through.
But if the props be taken away, the horfes put to, and
the chariot driven over a piece of ground which is circu¬
larly convex, the nail in the axle will defcribe a circular
curve, and the pin in the nave will ftill defcribe a circle
round the progrefiive nail in the axle, but not in the
fpace through which it moves. In this cafe, the curve
defcribed.
ASTRO
defcribed by the nail will referable in miniature as much
of the earth’s annual path round the fun, as it defcribes
whilft the moon goes as often round the earth as the pin
does round the nail; and the curve defcribed by the
nail will have fome refemblance of the moon’s path du¬
ring fo many lunations.
Let us now fuppofe that the radius of the circular
curve defcribed by the nail in the axle is to the radius of
the circle which the pin in the nave defcribes round the
axle, as 3374 to 1 ; which is the proportion of the ra¬
dius or femidiameter of the earth’s orbit to that of the
.moon’s, or of the circular curve ^1234567 5,
&c. to the little circle a ; and then, whilft the pro-
.greflive nail defcribes the. faid curve from -A to E, the
pin will go once round the nail with regard to the cen¬
tre of its path, and in fo doing, will defcribe the curve
abcde. The former will be a true reprefentation of the
earth’s path for one lunation, and the latter of the moon’s
for that time. Here we may fet afide the inequalities of
the moon’s motion, and alfo the earth’s moving round
its common centre of gravity and the moon’s : All which,
if they were truly copied in this experiment, would not
fenfibly alter the figure of the paths defcribed by the nail
and pin, even though they fhould rub againft a plain up¬
right furface all the way, and leave their tracks vifible
upon it. And if the chariot was driven forward on fuch
a convex piece of ground, fo as to turn the wheel feve-
ral times round, the track of the pin in the nave would
fill be concave toward the centre of the circular curve
defcribed by the pin in the axle; as the moon’s path is
always concave to the fun in the centre of the earth’s
annual orbit.
In this diagram, the thickeft curve line ABCD, with
the numeral figures fet to it, reprefents as much of the
earth’s annual orbit as it defcribes in 32 days from weft
to eaft; the little circles at abode fhew the moon’s orbit
in due proportion to the earth’s ; and the fmalleft curve
reprefents the line of the moon’s path in the hea¬
vens for 32 days, accounted from any particular new moon
at<r. The machine, Plate XLIX. fig. 2. is for delineating
the moon’s path, and will be defcribed, with the reft of
$he aftronomical machinery;, in the laft chapter. The
fun is fuppofed to be in the centre of the curve A 1 2. %
4567/?, &c. and the fmall dotted circles upon it repre-
fent the moon’s orbit,, of which the radius is in the fame
proportion to the earth’s path in this fcheme, that the
radius of the moon’s orbit in the heavens bears to the ra¬
dius of the earth’s annual path round the fun; that is, as
240,000 to 81,000,000, or as 1 to 3374.
When the earth is at A, the new moon is at a; and
in the feven days that the earth defcribes the curve 1 2
34567, the moon, in accompanying the earth de¬
fcribes the curve ab; and is in her firft- quarter at b
when the earth is at B. As the earth defcribes the
curve 5 8 9 10 11 12 13 14, the moon defcribes the
curve bo; and is at o, oppofite to the fun, when the
earth is at C. vWhilft the earth defcribes the curve
C 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22, the moon defcribes the
curve cd; and is in her third quarter at d when the
earth is at D. Once more, whilft the earth defcribes
the carve D 23 24 25 26 27 28 29, the moon defcribes
N O M Y. 467
the curve de, and is again in conjunction at e with the
fun when the earth is at E, between the 29th and 30th
day of the moon’s age, accounted by the numeral figures
from the new moon at A. In defcribing the curve abcde,
the moon goes round the progreflive earth as really as if
fhe had kept in the dotted circle A, and the earth conti¬
nued immoveable in the centre of that circle.
And thus we fee, that although the moon goes round
the earth in a circle, with refpedt to the earth’s centre,
her real path in the heavens is not very different in ap¬
pearance from the earth’s path. To fhew that the moon’s
path is concave to the fun, even at the time of change,
it is carried on a little farther into a fecond lunation, as
to/.
The moon’s abfolute motion from her change to her
firft quarter, or from a to b, is fo much flower than the
earth’s, that fhe falls 240 thoufand miles (equal to the
femidiameter of her orbit) behind the earth at her firft
quarter in b, when the earth is in ^; that is, fhe falls
back a fpace equal to her diftance from the earth. From
that time her motion is gradually accelerated to her op-
pofition or full at c, and then fhe is come up as far as
the earth, having regained what fhe loft in her firft quar¬
ter from a to b. From the full to the laft quarter at d,
her motion continues accelerated, fo as to be juft as far
before the earth at D, as fhe was behind it at her firft
quarter in b. But, from d to e her motion is retarded
fo, that fhe lofes as much with refpedt to the earth as is
equal to her diftance from it, or to the femidiameter of
her orbit ; and by that means fhe comes to e, and is
then in conjumfcion with the fun, as feen from the earth
at E. Hence we find, that the moon’s abfolute motion
is flower than the earth’s from her third quarter to her
firft ; and fwifter than the earth’s from her firft quarter
to her third : Her path being lefs curved than the earth’s
in the former cafe, and more in the latter. Yet it is ftill
bent the fame way towards the fun; for if we imagine
the concavity of the earth’s orbit to be meafured by
the length of a perpendicular line Cg, let down from the
earth’s place upon the ftraight line bgd at the full of the
moon, and connefting the places of the earth at the end
of the moon’s firft and third quarters, that length will
be about 640 thoufand miles; and the moon,.when new,
only approaching nearer to the fun by 240 thoufand
miles than the earth is, the length of the perpendicular
let down from her place at that time upon the fame
ftraight line, and which fhews the concavity of that part
of her path, will be about 400 thoufand miles.
The moon’s path being concave to the fun throughout,
demoftrates that her gravity towards the fun, at her
conjunction, exceeds her gravity towards the earth.
And if we confider that the quantity of matter in the fun
is almoft 230 thoufand times as great as the quantity of
matter in the earth, and that the attraction of each body
diminiflies as the fquare. of the diftance from it increafes,
we (hall foon find, that the point of equal attraction be¬
tween the earth and the fun is about 70 thoufand miles
nearer the earth than the moon is at her change. It may
now appear furprifing, that the moon does not abandon
the earth when fhe is between it and the fun, becaufe
flie is confxderably more attracted by the fun than by the
earths
•468 ASTRO
earth at that time. But this difficulty vaniffies when
we confider, that a common impulfe on any fyftetn of
bodies affe&s not their relative motions; but that they
will continue to attract, impel, or circulate round one an¬
other, in the fame manner as if there was no fuch im¬
pulfe. The moon is fo near the earth, and both of them
fo far from the fun, that the attra&ive power of the fun
may be confidered as equal on both ; and therefore, the
moon will continue to circulate round the earth in the
fame manner as if the fun did not attradl: them at all;
like'bodies in the cabbin of a ffiip, which move round,
or impel one another, in the fame manner when the ffiip
is under fail, as when it is at reft, becaufe they are ail
equally affefted by the common motion of the ffiip. If
by any other caufe, fuch as the near approach of a comet,
the moon’s diftance from the eanh ffiould happen to be
fo much increafed, that the difference of their gravita¬
ting forces towards the fun ffiould exceed that of the
moon towards the earth ; in that cafe, the moon, when
in conjunftion, would abandon the earth, and be either
drawn into- the fun, or comet, or circulate round a-
bout it.
The curves which Jupiter’s fatellites defcribe, are all
of different forts from the path defcribed by our moon,
although thefe fatcllites go round Jupiter, as the moon
goes round the earth. In Plate XLIII. fig. 3. let
ytBCDE, &c. be as much of Jupiter’s orbit as he de-
fcribes in 18 days from A to 7; and the curves abed
will be the paths of his four moons going round him in
his progreffive motion.
Now let us fuppofe all thefe moons to fet out from a
conjunction with the fun, as feen from Jupiter at A;
then his firft or neareft moon will be at a, his fecond at
b, his third at c, and his fourth at d. At the end of
24 terreftrial hours after this conjunction, Jupiter has
moved to B, his firft moon or fatellite has defcribed the
curve ai, his fecond the curve b\, his third ci, and his
fourth di. The next day, when Jupiter is at C, his
firft fatellite has defcribed the curve a2, from its con¬
junction, his fecond the curve bz, his third the curve C2,
and his fourth the curve d2, and fo on. The numeral
figures under the capital letters ffiew Jupiter’s place in his
path every day for 18 days, accounted from A to T‘,
and the like figures fet to the paths of his fatellites, ffiew
where they are at the like times. The firft fatellite, al-
moft under C, is ftationary at + as feen from the fun ;
and retrograde from + to 2 : at 2 it appears ftationary
again, and thence it moves forward until it has paft 3,
and is twice ftationary, and once retrograde, between 3
and 4. The path of this fatellite interfeCb itfelf every
42t hours, making fuch loops as in the diagram at
2 3 5 7 9 10 12 14 16 18, a little after every con¬
junction. The fecond fatellite b, moving flower, barely
croffes its path every 3 days 13 hours ; as at 4 7 11
14 18, making only five loops and as many conjunftions
in the time that the firft makes ten. The third fatellite
c moving ftill flower, and having defcribed the curve
<r .1 2 3 4 S 6 7, comes to an angle at 7 in con¬
junction with the fun at the end of 7 days 4 hours ; and
fb goes on to defcribe fuch another curve 789 10 11
12 13 I4> and is at 14 in its next conjunction. The
N O M Y.
fourth fatellite d is always progreflive, making neither
loops nor angles in the heavens ; but comes to its next
conjunction at e between the numeral figures 16 and 17,
or in 16 days 18 hours. In order to have a tolerably
good figure of the paths of thefe fatellites, take the
following method.
It appears by the fcheme, that the three firft fatellifes
come almolt into the fame line or pofition every feventh
day ; the firft being only a little' behind with the fecond,
a; d the fecond behind with the third. But the period of
the fourth fatellite is fo incommenfurate to the periods of
the other three, that it cannot be gueffed at by the dia¬
gram when it would fall again into a line of conjunction
with them, between Jupiter and the fun. And no won¬
der ; for fuppofing them all to have been once in con¬
junction, it will require 3,087,043,493,260 years to
bring them in conjunction again.
In Plate XLIV. fig. 1. we have the proportions of the
orbits of Saturn’s five fatellites, and of Jupiter’s four,
to one another, to our moon’s orbit, and to the difk of
the fun. S is the fun ; M m the moon’s orbit, (the
earth fuppofed to be at is ;), J Jupiter ; 1234 the
orbits of his four moons or fatellites ; Sat Saturn ; and
12345 tl1* orbits of his five moons. Hence it ap¬
pears, that the fun would much more than fill the whole
orbit of the moon ; for the fun’s diameter is 763,000
miles, and the diameter of the moon’s orbit only
480,000. In proportion to all thefe orbits of the fatel¬
lites, the radius of Saturn’s annual orbit would be 21^
yards, of Jupiter’s orbit 1 i-f-, and of the earth’s 2\t
taking them in round numbers.
Chap. XIV. The Phenomena of the Harvefl-
moon explained by a common Globe: The
years in which the Harvejl-moons are leaf
and moft beneficial from 1751, to 1861.
The long Duration of Moon-light at the
Poles in Winter.
It is generally believed that the moon rifes about 48
minutes later every day than on the preceding; but this
is true only with regard to places on the equator. In
places of confiderable latitude there is a remarkable dif¬
ference, efpecially in the harveft time ; with which far¬
mers were better acquainted than aftronomers till of
late ; and gratefully aferibed the early rifing of the full
moon at that time of the year to the goodnefs of God,
in ordering it fo on purpofe to give them an immediate
fupply of moon-light after fun-fet for their greater con-
veniency in reaping the fruits of the earth. And indeed,
In this inftance of the harveft-moon, as in many others
difcoverable by aftronomy, the wifdom and beneficence
of the Deity is confpicuous, who really ordered the
courfe of the moon fo, as to beftow more or lefs light
on all parts of the earth as their feveral circumftances
and feafons render it more or lefs ferviceable. About
the equator, where there is no variety of feafons, and
the weather changes feldom, and at ftated times, moon¬
light is not neceffary for gathering in the produce of the
ground;
ASTRO
ground ; and there the moon rifes about 48 minutes
later every day or night than on the former. At con-
fiderable diftances from the equator, where the weather
and feafons are more uncertain, the autumnal full moons
rife very foon after fun-fet for.feveral evenings together.
At the polar circles, where the mild feafon is of very
fhort duration, the autumnal full moon rifes at fun-fet
from the firft to the third quarter. And at the poles,
where the fun is for half a year abfent, the winter full
moons fliine conftantly without fetting from the firft to
the third quarter.
It is foon faid that all thefe phenomena are owing to
the different angles made by the horizon and different
parts of the moon’s orbit; and that the moon can be full
but once or twice in a year in thofe parts of her orbit
which rife with the leaft angles. But to explain this
fubjedt intelligibly, we muft dwell much longer upon it.
The plane of the equinodtial is perpendicular to the
earth’s axis : and therefore, as the earth turns round
its axis, all parts of the equinodtial make equal angles
with the horizon both at riling and fetting ; fo that equal
portions of it always rife or fet in equal times. Confe-
quently, if the moon’s motion were equable, and in the
equinodtial, at the rate of 12 degrees from the fun every
day, as it is in her orbit. Hie would rife and fet 48 mi¬
nutes later every day than on the preceding : for 12 de¬
grees of the equinodtial rife or fet in 48 minutes of time
in all latitudes.
But the moon’s motion is fo nearly in the ecliptic,
that we ’ may confider her at prefent as moving in it.
Now the different parts of the ecliptic, on account of
its obliquity to the earth’s axis, make very different
angles with the horizon as they rife or fet. Thofe parts
or figns which rife with the fmalieft angles fet with the
greateft, and vice verfa. In equal times, whenever this
angle is leaft, a greater portion of the ecliptic rifes than
when the angle is larger; as may be feen by elevating the
pole of a globe to any confiderable latitude, and then
turning it round its axis in the horizon. Confequently,
when the moon is in thofe figns which rife or fet with the
fmalleft angles, fhe rifes or fets with the leaft difference
of time ; and with the greateft difference in thofe figns
which rife or fet with the greateft angles.
But, becaufe all who read this treatife may not be pro¬
vided with globes, though in this cafe it is requifite to
know how to ufe them, we (hall fubftitute the figure of
a globe; (Plate XLIV. fig. 2.) in which FUP is the axis,
2dTR the tropic of Cancer, LTrs the tropic of Ca¬
pricorn, 25EUrs the ecliptic touching both the tro¬
pics, which are 47 degrees from each other, and JB the
horizon. The equator, being in the middle between the
tropics, is cut by the ecliptic in two oppofite points,
which are the beginnings of ‘V5 Aries and Q Libra. K
is the hour-circle with its index, F the north pole of
the globe elevated to a confiderable latitude, fuppofe 40
degrees above the horizon, and P the fouth pole de-
preffed as much below it. Becaufe of the oblique pofi-
tion of the fphere in this latitude, the ecliptic has the
high elevation above the horizon, making the
angle NU2B of 734. degrees with it when SE5 Cancer
is on the meridian, at which time ^ Libra rifes in the
Vol. 1. No. 20. 3
N O M Y. 469
eaft. But let the globe be turned half round its axis*
till rs Capricorn comes to the meridian and CY’ Aries
rifes in the eaft:, and then the ecliptic will have the low
elevation NL above the horizon, making only an angle
NUL of 26I degrees with it; which is 47 degrees lefs
than the former angle, equal to the diftance between the
tropics.
In northern latitudes, the fmalleft angle made by the
ecliptic and horizon is when Aries rifes, at which time
Libra fets ; the greateft when Libra rifes, at which time
Aries fets. From the rifing of Aries to the rifing of
Libra, (which is twelve fydereal hours), the angle in-
creafes ; and from the rifing of Libra to the rifing of
Aries, it decreafes in the fame proportion. By this ar¬
ticle and the preceding, it appears that the ecliptic rifes
fafteft about Aries, and floweft about Libra.
On the parallel of London, as much of the ecliptic
rifes about Pifces and Aries in two hours as the moon
goes through in fix days; and therefore whilft the moon
is in thefe figns, ftte differs but two hours in rifing for
fix days together ; that is, about 20 minutes later every
day or night than on the preceding, at a mean rate.
But in 14 days afterwards, the moon comes to Virgo and
Libra, which are the oppofite figns to Pifces and Aries;
and then (he differs almoft four times as much in rifing ;
namely, one hour and about fifteen minutes later every
day or night than the former, whilft fhe is in thefe
figns.
All thefe things will be made plain by putting fir all
patches on the ecliptic of a globe, as far from one ano¬
ther as the moon moves from any point of the celeftial
ecliptic in 24 hours, which at a mean rate is 13!-de¬
grees ; and then in turning the globe round, obferve the
rifing and fetting of the patches in the horizon, as the
index points out the different times in the hour-circle.
A few of thefe patches are reprefented by dots at o 1
2 3, <&c on the ecliptic, which has the pofition LUI
when Aries rifes in the eaft^ and by the dots 0123, tic.
when Libra rifes in the eaft; at which time the ecliptic
has the pofition EUrs ; making an angle of 62 degrees
with the horizon in the latter cafe, and an angle of no
more than 15 degrees with it in the former; fuppofing
the globe reftified to the latitude of London.
Having rectified the globe, turn it until the patch at
o, about the beginning of X Pifces in the half LUI of
the ecliptic, comes to the eaftern fide of the horizon ;
and then keeping the ball fteady, fet the hour-index to
XII, becaufe that hour may perhaps be more eafily re¬
membered than any other. Then turn the globe round
weftward, and in that time, fuppofe the patch o to have
moved thence to 1, 133-degrees, whilft: the earth turns
once round its axis, and you will fee that 1 rifes only
about 20 minutes later than o did on the day before.
Turn the globe round again, and in that time fuppofe fhe
fame patch to have moved from 1 to 2 ; and it will rife
only 20 minutes later by the hour-index than it did at 1
on the day or turn before. At the end of the next turn,
fuppofe the patch to have gone from 2 to 3 at U, and it
will vile 20 minutes later than it did at 2. And foon
for fix turns, in which time there will fcarce be two
hours difference : nor would there have been fo much if
•f 6 -C the
470
ASTRONOMY.
the 6 degrees of the fun’s motion in that time had been
allowed for. At the firft turn the patch rifes fouth of
the eaft, at the middle turn due eait, and at the laft turn
north of the eaft. But thefe patches will be 9 hours of
fetting on the weftern fide of the horizon, which (hews
that the moon will be fo much later of fetting in that
week in which (he moves through thefe two figns. The
caufe of this difference is evident ; for Pifces and Aries
make only an angle of 15 degrees with the horizon when
they rife ; but they make an angle of 62 degrees with
it when they fet. As the figns Taurus, Gemini, Can¬
cer, Leo, Virgo, and Libra, rife fuccefliyely, the angle
increafes gradually which they make with thediorizon;
and decreafes in the fame proportion as they fet. And
for that reafon, the moon differs gradually more in the
time of her rifing every day whilft fhe is in thefe figns,
and lefs in her fetting : after which, through the other
fix figns, viz. Scorpio, Sagittary, Capricorn, Aqua¬
rius, Pifces, and Aries, the rifing difference becomes
lefs every day, until it be at the lead of all, namely, in
Pifces and Aries.
The moon goes round the ecliptic in 27 days 8 hours ;
but not from change to change in lefs than 29 days 12
hours : fo that fhe is in Pifces and Aries at lead once in
every lunation, and in fome lunations twice.
If the earth had no annual motion, the fun would ne¬
ver appear to fhift his place in the ecliptic. And then
every new moon would fall in the fame fign and degree
of the ecliptic, and every full moon in the oppofite ; for
the moon would go precifely round the ecliptic from
change to change. So that if the moon was once full
in Pifces or Aries, fhe would always be full when fhe
came round to the fame fign and degree again. And as
the full moon rifes at fun-fet (becaufe when any point of
the ecliptic fets, the oppofite point rifes) fhe would coi>
dantly rife within two hours of fun-fet,. on the parallel
of London, during the week in which fhe were full.
But in the time that the moon goes round the ecliptic
from any. conjunction or oppofition, the earth goes almod
a fign forward ; and therefore the fun will feem to go as
far forward in that time, namely, 27! degrees ; fo that
the moon mud go 27-!' degrees more than round, and as
much farther as the fun advances in that interval,, which
is 2tV degrees, before fhe can be in conjunction with, or
oppofite to, the fun again. Hence it is evident, that
there can be but one conjunction or oppofition of the fun
and moon in a year in any particular part of the ecliptic.
This may be familiarly exemplified by the hour and mi¬
nute-hands of a watch, which are never in conjunction or
oppofition in. that part of the dial-plate where they were
fo lad before. And indeed,, if we compare the twelve
hours on the dial-plate to the twelve figns of the ecliptic,
the hour-hand to the fun, and the minute-hand to the
moon, we (hall have a tolerably near refemblance in mi-
niature to the motions of our great ciledial luminaries.
The only difference is, that whild the fun goes once
round the ecliptic, the moon makes 12-j- conjunctions
with him : but whild the hour hand goes round the dialr
plate, the minute-hand makes only 11 conjunctions with
it; becaufe the minute-hand moves flower in refpeCt of
the hour-hand than, the moon does with regard to the fua.
As the moon can never be full but when fhe is oppo¬
fite to the fun, and the fun is never in Virgo and Libra
but in our autumnal months, it is plain that the moon is
never full in the oppofite figns, Pifces and Aries, but in
thefe two months. And therefore we can have only two-
full moons in the year, which rife fo near the time of
fun-fet, for a week together, as above mentioned. Th^
former of thefe is called the harveji-moon, and the latter
the hunter's moon.
Here it will probably be aflced, Why we never ob-
ferve this remarkable rifing of the moon but in harved,
fince fhe is in Pifces and Aries twelve times in the year
befides ; and mud then rife with as little difference of
time as in harved ? The anfwer is plain: for in winter
thefe figns rife at noon ; and being then only a quarter
of a circle didant from the fun, the moon in them is in
her firft quarter: But when the fiin is above the horizon,
the moon’s rifing is neither regarded nor perceived. In
fpring thefe figns rife with the fun, becqufe he is then in
them ; and as the moon changeth in them at that time of
the year, fhe is quite invifible. In fummer they rife a-
bout midnight, and the fun being then three figns, or a
quarter of a circle before them, the moon is in them a-
bout her third quarter; when rifing fo late, and giving
but very little light, her rifing pafies unobferved. And
in autumn, thefe figns, being oppofite to the fun, rife
when he fets, with the moon in oppofition, or at the
full, which makes her rifing very confpicuous.
At the equator, the north and fouth poles lie in the
horizon ; and therefore the ecliptic makes the fame an¬
gle fouthward with the horizon when Aries rifes, as it
does northward when Libra rifes. Confequently, as the
moon at all the fore-mentioned patches rifes and fets
nearly at equal angles with the horizon all the year
round, and about 48 minutes later every day or night
than on the preceding, there can be no particular har-
ved-moon at the equator.
The farther that any place is from the equator, if it be
not beyond the polar circle, the angle gradually dimi-
nifhes which the ecliptic and horizon make when Pifces
and Aries rife: And therefore, when the moon is in thefe
figns fhe rifes with a nearly proportionable difference
later every day than on the former ; and is for that rea¬
fon the more remarkable ^bout the full, until we come
to the polar circles, or 66 degrees from the equator ; in
which latitude the ecliptic and horizon become coincident
every day for a moment, at the fame fydereal hour, (or
3 minutes 56 feconds fooner every day than the former),
and the very next moment one half of the ecliptic, con¬
taining Capricorn, Aquarius, Pifces, Aries, Taurus,
and Gemini rifes, and the oppofite half fets. There¬
fore, whild the moon is going from the beginning of Ca¬
pricorn to the beginning of Cancer, which is almod 14
days, fhe rifes at the fame fydereal hour; and in autumn,
jud at fun-fet, becaufe all that half of the ecliptic, in
which the fun is at that time, fets at the fame .■ fy-
dereal hour, and the oppofite half rifes ; that is, 3 mi¬
nutes 56 feconds, of mean folar time, fboner every day
than on the day before. So,., whild the moon is going
from Capricorn to Cancer, fhe rifes earlier every day
than on the preceding,, contrary to what fhe. does at all
A S T R O
places between the polar circles. But, during the above
fourteen days, the moon js 24 fydereal hours later in
fetting ; for the fix figns, which rife all at once on the
ealtern fide of the horizon, are 24 hours in fetting
on the weftern fide of it; as any ore may fee by ma¬
king chalk-marks at the beginning of Capricorn and of
Cancer, and then, having elevated the pole 66|- degrees,
turn the globe llowly round its axis, and obferve the ri¬
ling and fetting of the ecliptic. As the beginning of
Aries i& equally diftant from the beginning of Cancer
and of Capricorn, it is in the middle of that half of the
the ecliptic which rifes all at once. And when the fun is
at the beginning of Libra, he is in the middle of the o-
ther half. Therefore, when the fun is in Libra, and
the moon in Capricorn, the moon is a quarter of a cir¬
cle before the fun; oppofite to him, and confequently
full in Aries, and a quarter of a circle behind him, when
in Cancer. But when Libra rifes, Aried fets, and all
that half of the ecliptic of which Aries is the middle ;
and therefore, at that time of the year, the moon rifes
at fun-fet from her firft to her third quarter.
In northern latitudes, the autumnal full moons are in
Pifces and Aries, and the vernal full moons in Virgo and
L;bra: In fouthern latitudes juft the reverfe, becaufe
the feafons are contrary. But Virgo and Libra rife at
as fmall angles with the horizon in fouthern latitudes, as
Pifces and Aries do in the northern; and therefore the
harveft-moons are juft as regular on one fide of the equa¬
tor as on the other.
As thefe figns, which rife with the leaft angles, fet
with the greateft, the vernal full moons differ as much
in their times of rifing every night, as the autumnal full
moons differ in their times of fetting; and fet with as
little difference as the autumnal full moons rife; the one
being in all cafes the reverfe of the other.
Hitherto, for the fake of plainnefs, we have fuppofed'
the moon to move in the ecliptic, from which the fun
never deviates. But the orbit in which the moon really
moves is different from the ecliptic; one half being ele¬
vated jy degrees above it, and the other half as much
depreffed below it. The moon’s orbit therefore inter-
fedts the ecliptic in two points diametrically oppofite to
each other ; and thefe interfeftions are called the moun t
no Jet. So the moon can never be in the ecliptic but
when Ihe is in either of her nodes-, which is at leaft;
twice in every courfe from change to change, and fome-
times thrice. For, as the moon goes almoft a whole
fign more than round her orbit from change to change, if
lire paffes by either node about the time of change, fire
will pafs by the other in about fourteen days after, and
come round to the former node two days again before
the next change. That node, from which the moon be¬
gins to afcend northward, or above the ecliptic, in nor¬
thern latitudes, is called the afcending node; and the o-
ther, the defending node ; becaufe the moon, when (he
paffes by it, defcends below the ecliptic fouthward.
The moan’s, obliqpe motion, with regard to the eclip-
N O M Y. 471
tic, .caufes fome difference in the times of her rifing and
fetting from what is already mentioned. For whilft fine
is northward of the ecliptic, fhe rifes fooner and fets
later'than if fhe moved in the ecliptic; and when (he is
fouthward of the ecliptic, fhe rifes later, and fets fooner.
This difference is variable, even in the fame figns, be¬
caufe the nodes fhift backward about 194 degrees in the
ecliptic every year; and fo go round it contrary to the
order of figns in 18 years 225 days.
When the afcending node is in Aries, the fouthem
half of the moon’s orbit makes an angle of 54 degrees
lefs with the horizon than the ecliptic does, when A-
ries rifes in northern latitudes: For which reafon the
moon rifes with lefs difference of time whilft {he is in
Pifces and Aries, than there would be if {he kept in the
ecliptic. But in 9 years and 112 days afterward, the
defcending node comes to Aries; and then the moon’s
orbit makes an angle 54 degrees greater with the hori¬
zon when Aries rifes, tliat the ecliptic does at that time;
which caufes the moon to rife with greater difference
of time in Pifces and Aries than if fhe moved in the e-
cliptic,
To be a little more particular ; when the afcending node
is in Aries, the angle is only 94 degrees on the parallel
of London when Aries rifes. But when the defcending ,
node comes to Aries, the angle is 204 degrees; this oc-
cafions as great a difference of the moon’s rifing in the
fame figns every 9 years, as there would be on two pa¬
rallels to 104 degrees from one another, if the moon’s
courfe were in the ecliptic.
As there is a complete revolution of the nodes in 184
years, there muft be a regular period of all the varieties
which can happen in the rifing and fetting of the moon
during that time. But this ffiifting of the nodes never
affeds the moon’s rifing fo- much, even in her quickeft
defcendfng latitude, as not to allow us ftill the benefit of
her rifing nearer the time of fun-fet for a few days toge¬
ther about the full in harveft, than when Ihe is full at a-
ny other time of the year. The following table fhews
in-what years the harveft^moons are leaft beneficial as to
the times of their rifing, and in what years moft, from
1751 to 1861. The column of years under the letter
L are thoft in which the harveft-moons are leaft of all
beneficial, becaufe they fall about the defcending node ;
and thofe under M are the moft of all beneficial, becaufe
they fall about the afcending node. In all the columns
from N to S, the harveft-moons <Je^cenft gradually in
the lunar orbit, and rife to lefs heights above the hori¬
zon. From S to N they afcend in the fame proportion,
and rife to greater heights above the horizon. In both
the columns under S, the harveft-moons are in the loweft
part of the moon’s-orbit, that is, fartheft fouth of the
ecliptic; and therefore ftay fliorteft of all above the ho¬
rizon; in the columns under N, juft the reverfe. And,
in both cafes, their rifing, though not at the fame times,
are nearly the fame with regard to difference of time, as
if the moon’s orbit were coincident with the ecliptic.
Teats-
47*
ASTHON OMY.
N
1751
1770
1788
1807
1826
1844
S
1760
1779
1798
1816
1835
1853
Tears in which the Harvefl-moons are leajl beneficial.
L S
1752 1753 *754 175J 1756 3757 1758 1759
1771 1772 1773 1774 1775 1776 1777 1778
1789 1790 1791 1792 1793 1794 I795 1796
1808 1809 1810 1811 1812 1813 1814 1815
.1827 1828 1829 1830 1831 1832 1833 1834
1845 1846 1847 1848 1849 1850 1851 1852
Tears in which they are mojl beneficial.
M
1761
1780
1799
1817
1836
1854
1762
1781
1800
1818
1837
1855
1763
1782
1801
1819
1838
1856
1764
1783
1802
1820
1839
1857
1765
1784
1803
1821
1840
1858
1766
1785
1804
1822
1841
1859
1767
1786
1805
1823
1842
i860
N
1768
1787
1806
1824
1843
1861
1769
1825
At the polar circles, when the fun touches the fummer
tropic, he continues 24 hours above the horizon, and 24
hours below it when he touches the winter tropic. For
the fame reafon, the full moon neither rifes in fummer,
nor fets in winter, confidering her as moving in the ec¬
liptic. For the winter full moon being as high in the
ecliptic as the fummer fun, muft therefore continue as
long above the horizon; and the fummer full moon being
as low in the ecliptic as the winter fun, can no more rife
than he does. But thefe are only the two full moons
which happen about the tropics, for all the others rife and
fet. In fummer, the full moons are low, and their (lay
is (hort above the horizon, when the nights are fhort,
and we have leaf! occafion for moon-light: In winter,
they go high, and Hay long above the horizon, when the
nights are long, and we want the greateft quantity of
moon-light.
At the poles, one half of the ecliptic never fets, and
the other half never rifes; and therefore, as the fun is
always half a year in defcribing one half of the ecliptic,
and as long in going through the other half, it is natural
to imagine that the fun continues half a year together a-
bove the horizon of each pole in its turn, and as long
below it, riling to one pole when he fets to the other.
This would be exa&ly the cafe if there were no refrac¬
tion ; but by the atmofphere’s refracting the fun’s rays,
he becomes vifible fome days fooner, and continues fome
days longer in fight than he would otherwife do: fo that
he appears above the horizon of either pole before he
has got below the horizon of the other. And as he ne¬
ver goes more than 234- degrees below the horizon of
the poles, they have very little dark night; it being twi¬
light there as well as at all other places till the fun be
18 degrees below the horizon. The full moon being al¬
ways oppofite to the fun, can never be feen while the fun
is above the horizon, except when the moon falls in the
northern half of her orbit; for whenever any point of
,the ecliptic rifes, the oppofite point fets. Therefore, as
the fun is above the horizon of the north pole from the
20th of March till the 23d of September, it is plain,
that the moon, when full, being oppolite to the fun, muft
be below the horizon during that half of the year. But
when the fun is in the fouthern half of the ecliptic, he
never rifes to the north pole, during which half of the
year, every full moon happens in fome part of the north¬
ern half of the ecliptic, which never fets. Confequent-
ly, as the polar inhabitants never fee the full moon in
fummer, they have her always in the winter, before, at,
and after the full, Ihining for 14 of our days and nights.
And when the fun is at his greateft depreffion below the
horizon, being then in Capricorn, the moon is at her
firft quarter in Aries, full in Cancer, and at her third
quarter in Librff. And as the beginning of Aries is the
rifing point of the ecliptic, Cancer the higheft, and Li¬
bra the fetting point, the moon rifes at her firft quarter
in Aries, is moft elevated above the horizon, and full in
Cancer, and fets at the beginning of Libra in her third
quarter, having continued vifible for 14 diurnal rotations
of the earth. Thus the poles are fupplied.one half of
the winter time with conftant moon-light in the fun’s
abfence; and only lofe fight of the moon from her third
to her firft quatter, while ihe gives but very little light,
and could be but of little, and fometimes of no fervice
to them. A bare view of the figure (Plate XLIV. fig.
3.) will make this plain; in which let S be the fun, e
the earth in fummer when its north pole n inclines to¬
ward the fun, and E the earth in winter, when its north
north pole declines from him. SEN and NIVS is the
horizon of the north pole, which is coincident with the
equator; and, in both thefe pofitions of the earth,
05 jQ-rr is the moon’s orbit, in which Ihe goes round
the earth according to the order of the letters abed,
ABCD. When the moon is at a, fhe is in her third
quarter to the earth at e, and juft rifing to the north pole
«; at £ Ihe changes, and is at the greateft height above
the horizon, as the fun likewife is; at c Ihe is in her firft
quarter, fetting below the horizon; and is loweft of all
under it at d, when oppofite to the fun,, and her ; nlight-
. ened fide toward the earth. But then Ihe is full in view
to the fouth pole /», which is as much turned from the
fun as the north pole inclines towards him. Thus, in
our fummer, the moon is above the horizon of the north
pole
YlhteXLW
X //rA
^f£
A S T R C
pole whilft fhe defcribes the northern half of the eclip¬
tic cY’25£z, or from her third quarter to her firft; and
below the horizon during her progrefs through the fouth-
ern half ; highell at the change, moft deprelfed
at the full. But in winter, when the earth is at E, and
its north pole declines from the fun, the new moon at D
is at her greatell depreflion below the horizon NJVS, and
the full moon at B at her greateft height above it, rifing
at her firfl quarter A, and keeping above the horizon till
flie conies to her third quarter C. At a mean date fhe
is 23-^ degrees above the horizon at B and b, and as
much below it at D and d, equal to the inclination of
the earth’s axis F. S3B and Srs are, as it were, a ray
of light proceeding from the fun to the earth ; and
ftiews, that when the earth is at e, the fun is above the
horizon, vertical to the tropic of Cancer; and when the
earth is at E, he is below the horizon, vertical to the
tropic of Capricorn.
Chap. XV. Of the Ebbing and Flowing
of the Sea.
The caufe of the tides was difcovered by Kepler,
who, in his Introduttion to the Phyfics of the Heavens,
thus explains it: “ The orb of the attrading power,
“ which is in the moon, is extended as far as the earth,
“ and draws the waters under the torrid zone, ading
“ upon places where it is vertical, infenfibly on confined
“ feas and bays, but fenfibly on the ocean, whofe beds
“ are large, and the waters have the liberty of recipro-
“ cation; that is, of rifing and falling.” And in the
70th page of his Lunar AJlronomy :—“ But the caufe
“ of the tides of the fea appears to be the bodies of the
“ fun and moon drawing the waters of the fea.” This
hint being given, Sir Ifaac Newton improved it, and
wrote fo amply on the fubjed, as to make the theory of
the tides in a manner quite his own; by difcovering the
caufe of their rifing on the fide of the earth oppofite to
the moon. For Kepler believed, that the prefence of
the moon occafioned an impulfe which caufed another in
her abfence.
The power of gravity diminifhes as the fquare of the
difiance increafes; and therefore the waters (Plate
XLIV. fig. 4.) at Z on the fide of the earth ABCDEFGH
next the moon M are more attraded than the central
parts of the earth 0 by the moon, and the central parts
are more attraded by her than the waters on the oppo¬
fite fide of the earth at n ; and therefore the diftance be¬
tween the earth’s centre and tne waters on its furface
under and oppofite to the moon will be increafed. For,
let there be three bodies at H, 0, and D, if they are
all equally attraded by the body M, they will all move
equally fall toward it, their mutual diftances from each
other continuing the fame. If the attradion of M is
unequal, then that body which is mofi firongly attraded
will move farteft, and this will increafe its difiance from
the other body. Therefore, by the law of gravitation,
M will attrad H more ftrongly than it does 0, by which
the diftance between H and 0 will be inqreafed, and.a
Vol. I. Numb. 20. 3
r N O M Y. 473
fpedator on 0 will perceive H rifing higher toward Z.
In like manner, 0 being more ftrongly attraded than D,
it will move farther towards M than D does; confe-
quently the difiance between 0 and D will be increafed,
and a fpedator on 0, not perceiving his own motion,
will fee D receding farther from him towards n; all ef-
feds and appearances being the fame, whether D recedes
from 0, or 0 from D.
Suppofe now there is a number of bodies, as
ABCDEFGH, placed round 0, fo as to form a flexible
or fluid ring; then, as the whole is attraded towards
M, the parts at H and D will have their difiance
from 0 increafed; whilft the parts at B and F, being
nearly at the fame diftance from M as 0 is, thefe parts
will not recede from one another, but rather, by the ob¬
lique attradion of M, they will approach nearer to 0.
Hence the fluid ring will form itfelf into an ellipfe
ZIBLwKFNZ, whofe longer axis n#Z produced will
pafs through M, and its fliorter axis BOF will terminate
in B and F. Let the ring be filled with bodies, fo as to
form a fluid fphere round G \ then, as the whole moves
toward M, the fluid fphere being lengthened at Z and
n, will afiume an oblong or oval form. If M is the
moon, 0 the earth’s centre, ABCDEFGH the fea co¬
vering the earth’s furface, it is evident, by the above
reafoning, that whilft the earth by its gravity falls to¬
ward the moon, the water diredly below her at B will
fwell and rife gradually towards her; alfo the water at
D will recede from the centre, (ftridly fpeaking the cen¬
tre recedes from D), and rife on the oppofite fide of the
earth, whilft the water at B and F is deprefied, and falls
below the former level. Hence, as the earth turns round
its axis from the moon to the moon again in 24J- hours,
there will be two tides of flood and two of ebb in that
time, as we find by experience.
As this explanation of the ebbing and flowing of the
fea is deduced from the earth’s confiantly falling toward
the moon by the power of gravity, fome may find a dif¬
ficulty in conceiving how this is poffible, when the moon
is full, or in oppofition to the fun, fince the earth re¬
volves about the fun, and muft continually fall towards
it, and therefore cannot fall contrary ways at the fame
time; or if the earth is conftantly falling towards the
moon, they muft come together at laft. To remove this
difficulty, let it be confidered, that it is not the centre
of the earth that defcribes the annual orbit round the
fun, but the common centre of gravity of the earth and
moon together; and that whilft the earth is moving
round the fun, it alfo defcribes a circle round that centre
of gravity, going as many times round it in one revolu¬
tion about the fun as there are lunations or courfes of
the moon round the earth in a year; and therefore the
earth is conftantly falling towards the moon from a tan¬
gent to- the circle it defcribes round the faid common
centre of gravity. In Plate XLV. fig. 1. let M be the
moon, T’/K part of the moon’s orbit, and C the centre
of gravity.of the earth and moon; whilft the moon goes
round her orbit, the centre of the earth defcribes the
circle gW,round C, to which circle gak is a tangent;
and therefore when the moon has gone from M to a lit¬
tle part V/, the eart)i has moved from £ to e; and in that
f 6 D time
474 ASTRO
time has fallen towards the moon, from the tangent at a
to e, and fo round the whole circle.
The fun’s influence in railing the tides is but fmall in
comparifon of the moon’s : For though the earth’s dia¬
meter bears a confiderable proportion to its diftance from
the moon, it is next to nothing when compared with the
' diftance of the fun. And therefore, the difference of
the fun’s attradlion on the fides of the earth under and
oppofite to him, is much lefs than the difference of the
moon’s attra&ion on the fides of the earth under and
oppofite to her; and therefore the moon muft raife the
tides much higher than they can be raifed by the fun.
On this theory, fo far as we have explained it, the
tides ought to be higheft diredtly under and oppofite to the
moon; that is, when the moon is due north and fouth.
But we find, that in open feas, where the water flows free¬
ly, the moon M (Plate XLIV. fig. 4.) is generally paft the
north and fouth meridian, as at p, when it is high water
at Z and at n. The reafon is obvious; for though the
moon’s attraction was to ceafe altogether when fhe was
paft the meridian, yet the motion of afeent communi¬
cated to the water before that time would make it con¬
tinue to rife for fome time after; much more muft it do
fo when the attraction is only diminifhed: as a little im-
pulfe given to a moving ball will caufe it ftill to move
farther than otherwife it could have done. And as ex¬
perience fbews, that the day is hotter about three in the
afternoon, than when the fun is on the meridian, becaufe
of the increment made to the heat already imparted.
The tides anfw’er not always to the fame diftance of
the moon from the meridian at the fame places, but are
vaiioufly affeCfed by the aCHon of the fun, which brings
them on fooner when the moon is in her firft and third
quarters, and keeps them back later when ffte is in her
feeond and fourth; becaufe in the former cafe the tide
raifed by the fun alone would be earlier than the tide
raifed by the moon, and in the latter cafe later.
The moon goes round the earth in an elliptic orbit,
and therefore The approaches nearer to the earth than her
mean diftance, and recedes farther from it, in every lu¬
nar month. When Ihe is neareft, fhe attracts ftrongeft,
and fo raifes the tides moft; the contrary happens when
lire is fartheft, becaufe of her weaker attraction. When
both luminaries are in the equator, and the moon in Pe-
rigeo, or at her leaft diftance from the earth, fhe raifes
the tides higheft of all, efpecially at her conjunction and
oppofition ; both becaufe the equatoreal parts have the
greateft centrifugal force from their deferibing the largeft
circle, and from the coRCurring actions of the fun and
moon. At the change, the attractive forces of the fun
and moon being united, they diminifh the gravity of the
Waters- under the moon, and their gravity on the op¬
pofite fide is diminifhed by means of a greater centrifugal
force. At the full, whilft the moon raifes the tide un-
tierand oppofite to her, the fun aCting in the fame line,
taifes" the tide under and oppofite to him ; whence their
conjoint efFeCt is the fame as- at the change *, and in both
cafes, occafion what we call the fpring-tides. But at
the quarters, the fun’s action on the waters at 0 and H
(Plate XLV. fig. 2.) diminifhes, the efFeft of the moon’s
aCtion on the waters at Z and Ar; fo that they rife a
N O M Y.
little under and oppofite to the fun at 0 and H, and fall
as much under and oppofite to the moon at Z -and N,
making what we call the neap-tides, becaufe the fun and
moon then aft crofs-wife to each other. But, ftriftly
fpeaking, thefe tides happen not till fome time after; be¬
caufe in this, as in other cafes, the aftions do not pro¬
duce the greateft effeft when they are at the ftrongeft,
but fome time afterward.
The fun being nearer the earth in winter than in futn-
mer, is of courfe nearer to it in February and October
than in March and September; and therefore the greateft
tides happen not till fome time after the autumnal equi¬
nox, and return a little before the vernal.
The fea being thus pm in motion, would continue to
ebb and flow for feveral times, even though the fun and
moon were annihilated, or their influence flrould ceafe:
as if a bafon of water -were agitated, the water would
continue to move for fome time after the bafon was left
to ftand ftill. Or like a pendulum, which having been
put in motion by the hand, continues to make feveral vi¬
brations without any new impulfe.
When the moon is in the equator, the tides are e-
qually high in both parts of the lunar day, or time of the
moon’s revolving from the meridian to the meridian a-
gain, which is 24 hours 48 minutes. But as the moon
declines from the equator towards either pole, the tides
are alternately higher and lower at places having north or
fouth latitude. For one of the higheft elevations, which
is that under the moon, follows her towards the pole to
which fhe is neareft, and the other declines towards the
oppofite pole ; each elevation deferibing parallels as far
diftant from the equator, on oppofite fides, as the moon
declines from it to either fide ; and confequently, the
parallels deferibed by thefe elevations of the water are
twice as many degrees from one another, as the moon
is from the equator ; increafing their diftance as the
moon increafes her declination, till it be at the greateft,
when the faid parallels are, at a mean ftate, 47 degrees
from one another : and on that day, the tides are moft
unequal in their heights. As the moon returns toward
the equator, the parallels deferibed by the oppofite ele¬
vations approach towards each other, until the moon
comes to the equator, and then they coincide. As the
moon declines toward the oppofite pole, at equal di-
ftances, each elevation deferibes the fame parallel in the
other part of the lunar day, which its oppofite elevation
deferibed before. Whilft the moon has north declina¬
tion, the greateft tides in the northern hemifphere are
when fhe is above the horizon ; and the reverfe whilft
her declination is fonth. In Plate XLV. let NES^
be the earth, NCS its axis, the equator, TQq
the tropic of Cancer, trs the tropic of Capricorn,
ab the arftic circle, cd the antarftic, N the north pole,
S the fouth pole, M the moon, F and G the two emi¬
nences of water, whofe loweft parts are at a and d,
(fig. 3-.), at A’and-S, (fig. 4.), and at £ and c, (fig. 5.),
always 90 degrees from the higheft. Now when the
moon is in her greateft north declination at M, the
higheft elevation G tinder her, is on the tropic of Can¬
cer, TQn, and the oppofite elevation F on the tropic of
Capricorn trs ; and thefe two elevations deferibe the tro¬
pics
*0
ASTRO
pics by the earth’s diurnal rotation. All places in the
northern hemifphere EN^ have the highdt tides when
they coftie into the pofition under the moon;
and the lowed: tides when the earth’s diurnal rotation
carries them into the pofition aTE, on the fide oppofite
to the moon ; the reverfe happens at the fame time in
the fouthern hemifphere ES^_, as is evident to fight.
The axis of the tides aCd has now its poles a and d (be¬
ing always 90 degrees from the higheft elevations) in the
arclic and antarflic circles ; and therefore it is plain,
that at thefe circles there is but one tide of flood, and
one of ebb, in the lunar day. For, when the point a
revolves half round to b, in 12 lunar hours, it has a tide
of flood ; but when it comes to the fame point a again
in 12 hours more, it has the lowed ebb. In feven days
afterward, the moon M comes to the equinoftial circle,
and is over the equator E§>~, when both elevations de-
fcribe the equator ; and in both hemifpheres, at equal
didances from the equator, the tides are equally high in
both parts of the lunar day. The whole phenomena be¬
ing re verfed, when the moon has fouth declination, to
what they were when her declination was north, require
no farther defcription.
In Plate XLV. fig. 3. 4. 5. the earth is ortho-
graphically projeded on the plane of the meridian ; but
in order to defcribe a particular phenomenon, we now
projed it on the plane of the ecliptic. In the fame Plate
fig. 2. let HZONbt the earth and fea, FED the equa¬
tor, T the tropic of Cancer, C the ardic circle, P the
north pole, and the curves 123, &c. 24 meridians, or
hour-circles, interfeding each other in the poles ; AGM
is the moon’s orbit, S the Sun, M the moon, Z the
water elevated under the moon, and N the oppofite e-
qual elevation. As the lowed parts of the water are al-
ways 90 degr ees from the highed, when the moon is in
either of the tropics, (as at M), the elevation Z is on
the tropic of Capricorn, and the oppofite elevation N on
the tropic of Cancer, the low-water circle HCO touches
the polar circles at C; and the high-water circle ETP6,
goes over the poles at P, and divides every parallel of
latitude into two equal fegments. In this^ cafe tire tides
upon every parallel are alternately higher and lower ; but
they return in equal times : The point T, for example,
on the tropic of Cancer, (where the depth of the tide is
reprefented by the breadth of the dark flrade), has a
Ihallow'er tide of flood at T than when it revolves half
round from thence to 6, according to the order of the
numeral figures ; but it revolves as foon from 6 to T" as
it did from T to 6. When the moon is in the equi¬
noftial, the elevations Z and N are transferred to the
equator at 0 and //, and the high and low-water circles
are got into each other’s former places ; in which cafe
the tides return in unequal times, but are equally high in
both parts of the lunar day : for a place at 1 (under D)
revolving as formerly, goes fooner from 1 to 11, (un¬
der F), than from 11 to 1, becaufe the parallel it de-
feribes is cut into unequal fegments by the high-water
circle HCO : but the points 1 and 11 being equidiftant
from the pole of the tides at C, which is directly under
the pole of the moon’s orbit MG A, the elevations are e-
q^ally high in both parts of the day..
N O M V. 475
And thus it appears, that as the tides are governed
by the moon, they muft turn on the axis of the moon’s
orbit, which is inclined 23^ degrees to the earth’s axis
at a mean Hate : and therefore the poles of the tides muft
be fo many degrees from the poles of the earth, or in
oppofite points of the polar circles, going round thefe
circles in every lunar day. It is true, that, according to
Plate XLV. fig. 4. when the moon is vertical to the
equator EC^_, the poles of the tides feem to fall in with
the poles of the world N and S : but when we confider
that FHG is under the moon’s orbit, it will appear, that
W'hen the moon is over H, in the tropic of Capricorn,
the north pole of the tides (which can be no qiore than
90 degrees from under the moon) muft be at c in the
arftic circle, not at N, the north pole of the earth ;
and as the moon afeends from H to G \n her orbit, the
north pole of the tides muft ftiift from c to « in the
arftic circle, and the fouth pole as much in the antarftic.
It is not to be doubted, but that the earth’s quick
rotation brings the poles of the tides nearer to the poles
of the world, than they would be if the earth were at
reft, and the moon revolved about it only once a month ;
for otherwife the tides would be more unequal in their
heights, and times of their returns, than we find they
are. But how near the earth’s rotation may bring the
poles of its axis and thofe of the tides together, or how
far the preceding tides may afFeft thofe which follow, fo
as to make them keep up nearly to the fame heights, and
times of ebbing and flowing, is a problem more fit to be
folved by obfervation than by theory.
Thofe who have opportunity to make obfervations,
and chufe to fatisfy themfelves whether the tides are
really aftefted in the above manner by .the different pofi-
tions of the moon, efpecially as to the unequal times of
their returns, may take this general rule for knowing
when they ought to be fo affefted. When the earth’s
axis inclines to the moon, the northern tides, if not re¬
tarded in their paflage through (hoals and channels, nor af¬
fefted by the winds, ought to be greaseft when the moon
is above the horizon, leaft when ftie is below it, and quite
tJxe reverfe when the earth’s axis declines from her ; but,,
in both cafes, at equal intervals of time. When the earth’s
axis inclines fid,ewife to the moon, both tides are equally,
high, but they happen at unequal intervals of time. In
every lunation the earth’s axis inclines once to the moon,
once from her, and twice fidewife to her,, as it does to
the fun every year; becaufe the moon goes round the
ecliptic every month, and the fun but once in a year.
In fummer* the earth’s axis inclines towards the moon,
when new ; and therefore the day-tides in the north
ought to be higheft,. and night-tides loweft about the
change ; at the full the reverfe. At the quarters they
ought to be equally high, but unequal in their returns ;
becaufe the earth’s axis then inclines fidewife to the
moon. In winter the phenomena are the lame at full-
moon as in fummer at new. In autumn the earth’s axis
inclines fidewife to the moon when new and fullthere¬
fore the tides ought to be equally high, and unequal in
their returns at thefe times. At the firit quarter the
tides of flood fhould be leaft when the moon is above the
horizon, greateft when Are is below it ; and the reverfe
476 ASTRO
at her third quarter. In fpring, the phenomema of the
fir ft quarter anfwer to thofe of the third quarter in au¬
tumn ; and vice verfa. The nearer any time is to ei¬
ther of thefe feafons, the more the tides partake of the
phenomena of thefe feafons ; and in the middle between
any two of them the tides are at a mean ftate between
thofe of both.
In open feas, the tides rife but to very fmall heights
in proportion to what they do in wide-mouthed rivers,
opening in the diredtion of the ftream of tide. For, in
channels growing narrower gradually, the water is accu¬
mulated by the oppofition of the contradiing bank ; like
a gentle wind, little felt on an open plain, but ftrong
and briflc in a ftreet; efpecially if the wider end of the
ftreet be next the plain, and in the way of the wind.
The tides are fo retarded in their paflage through dif¬
ferent ihoals and channels, and otherwife fo varioufly af-
fedted by ftriking againft capes and headlands, that to
different places they happen at all diftances of the moon
from the meridian ; confequently at all hours of the lu¬
nar day. The tide propagated by the moon in the Ger¬
man ocean, when (lie is three hours paft the meridian,
takes 12 hours to come from thence to London-Bridge ;
where it arrives by the time that a new tide is raifed in
the ocean. And therefore when the moon has north de¬
clination, and we fhould expedl the tide at London to be
greateft when the moon is above the horizon, we find
it is ieaft ; and the contrary when ftie has fouth decli¬
nation. At feveral places it is high water three hours
before the moon comes to the meridian ; but that tide
which the moon pulhes as it were before her, is only the
tide oppofite to that which was raifed by her when ftie
was nine hours paft the oppofite meridian.
There are no tides in lakes, becaufe they are generally
fo fmall, that when the moon is vertical ftie attradls e-
every part of them alike, and therefore, by rendering
all the water equally light, no part of it can be raifed
higher than another. The Mediterranean and Baltic
feas fuffer very fmall elevations, becaufe the inlets by
which they communicate with the ocean are fo narrow,
that they cannot, in fo ftiort a time, receive or difcharge
enough to raife or fink their furfaces fenfibly.
Air being lighter than water, and the furface of the
atmofphere being nearer to the moon than the furface
of the fea, it cannot be doubted that the moon raifes
much higher tides in the air than in the fea. And there¬
fore many have wondered why the mercury does not fink
in the barometer when the moon’s aftion on the particles
of air makes them lighter as ftie paffes over the meridian.
But we muft confider, that as thefe particles are ren¬
dered lighter, a greater number of them is accumulated,
until the deficiency of gravity be made up by the height
of the column ; and then there is an equilibrium, and
confequently an equal preffure upon the mercury as be¬
fore ; fo that it cannot be affefted by the aerial tides.
Chap. XVI. Of Eclipfes : Their Number
and Periods. A large Catalogue of ancient
and modern Eclipfes.
Every planet and fatellite is illuminated by the fun ;
N O M Y.
and cafts a ftiadow towards that point of the heavens
which is oppofite to the fun. This ftiadow is nothing
but a privation of light in the fpace hid from the fun by
the opaque body that intercepts his rays.
When the fun’s light is fo intercepted by the moon,
that to any place of the earth the fun appears partly or
wholly covered, he is faid to undergo an eclipfe', though,
properly fpeaking, it is only an eclipfe of that part of the
earth where the moon’s ftiadow or penumbra falls.
When the earth comes between the fun and moon,
the moon falls into the earth’s ftiadow; and, having no
light of her own, (he fuffers a real eclipfe from the in¬
terception of the fun’s rays. When the fun is eclipfed
to us, the moon’s inhabitants, on the fide next the earth,
fee her ftiadow like a dark Ipot travelling over the earth,
about twice as fall: as its equatoreal parts move, and the
fame way as they move. When the moon is in an e
clipfe, the fun appears eclipfed to her, total to all thofe
parts on which the earth’s fliadow falls, and of as long
continuance as they are in the ftiadow.
That the earth is fpherical (for the hills take off no
more from the roundnefs of the earth, than grains of
dull do from the roundnefs of a common globe) is evi¬
dent from the figure of its ftiadow on the moon; which
is always bounded by a circular line, although the earth
is inceffantly turning its different fides to the moon, and
very feldom ftiews the fame fide to her in different eclip¬
fes, becaufe they feldom happen at the fame hours.
Were the earth* ftiaped like a round flat plate, its ftiadow
would only be circular when either of its fides diredtly
faced the moon; and more or lefs elliptical as the earth
happened to be turned more or lefs obliquely towards the
moon when flie is eclipfed. The moon’s different phafes
prove her to be round; for, as ftie keeps ftill the fame
fide towards the earth, if that fide were flat, as it appears
to be, ftie would never be vifible from the third quarter
to the firft ; and from the firft quarter to the third, ftie
would appear as round as when we fay Jhe is full; be¬
caufe, at the end of her firft quarter, the fun’s light
would come as fuddenly on all her fide next the earth,
as it does on a flat wall, and go off as abruptly at the
end of her third quarter.
If the earth and fun were equally large, the earth’s
ftiadow would be infinitely extended, and all of the fame
bulk ; and the planet Mars, in either of its nodes and
oppofite to the fun, would be eclipfed in the earth’s ftiadow.
Were the earth larger than the fun, its ftiadow would in-
creafe in bulk thefartherit extended, andwould eclipfe the
great planets Jupiter and Saturn, with all their moons,
when they were oppofite to the fun. But as Mars, in
oppofition, never falls into the earth’s ftiadow, although
he is not then above 42 millions of miles from the earth,
it is plain that the earth is much lefs than the fun; for
otherwife its ftiadow could not end in a point at fo fmall
a diftance. If the fun and moon were equally large, the
moon’s ftiadow would go on to the earth with an equal
breadth, and cover a portion of the earth’s furface more
than 2000 miles broad, even if it fell direftly againft the
earth’s centre, as feen fi»m the moon ; and much more if
it fell obliquely on the earth : But the moon’s ftiadow is
feldom 150 miles broad at the earth, unlefs when it falls
very
riafp.XLVX
ASTRO
rery obliquely on the earth, in total eclipfes of the fun.
In annular eclipfes, the moon’s real lhadow ends in a
point at fome diftance from the earth. The moon’s
fmall diftance from the earth, and the ftiortnefs of her
fhadow, prove her to be lefs than the fun. And, as the
earth’s ftiadow is large enough to cover the moon, if her
diameter were three times as large as it is (which is evi¬
dent from her long continuance in the lhadow when Ihe
. goes through its centre) it is plain, that the earth is much
bigger than the moon.
Though all opaque bodies, on which the fun Ihines,
have their lhadows, yet fuch is the bulk of the fun, and
the diftances of the planets, that the primary planets
can never eclipfe one another. A primary can eclipfe
only its fecondary, or be eclipfed by it; and never but
when in oppofition or conjun&ion with the fun. The
primary planets are very feldom in thefe pofitions, but
the fun and moon are fo every month : Whence one may
imagine, that thefe two luminaries (hould be eclipfed e-
very month. But there are few eclipfes in refpeft of the
number of new and full moons; the reafon of which we
lhall now explain.
If the moon’s orbit were coincident with the plane of
the ecliptic, in which the earth always moves and the fun
appears to move, the moon’s fhadow would fall upon the
earth at every change, and eclipfe the fun to fome parts
of the earth. In like manner, the moon would go through
the middle of the earth’s lhadow, and be eclipfed at eve¬
ry full; but with this difference, that Ihe would be totally
darkened for above an hour and an half; whereas the fun
never was above four minutes totally eclipfed by the in-
terpofition of the moon. But one half of the moon’s
orbit is elevated 5y degrees above the ecliptic, and the
other half as much deprefled below it; confequently, the
moon’s orbit interfefts the ecliptic in two oppofite points
called the moon's nodes, as has been already taken notice
of. When thefe points are in a right line with the cen¬
tre of the fun at new or full moon, the fun, moon, and
earth, are all in a right line; and if the moon be then
new, her lhadow falls upon the earth ; if full, the earth’s
fhadow falls upon her. When the fun and moon are
more than 17 degrees from either of the nodes at the
time of conjuntfion, the moon is then generally too high
or too low in her orbit to caft any part of her lhadow
upon the earth; when the fun is more than 12 deg. from
either of the nodes at the time of full moon, the moon is
generally too high or too low in her orbit to go thro’ any
part of the earth’s fhadow: And in both thefe cafes there
will be no eclipfe. But when the moon is lefs than 17 de¬
grees from either node at the time of conjunction, her fha¬
dow or penumbra falls more or lefs upon the earth, as fhe is
more or lefs within this limit. And when fhe is lefs than
12 degrees from either node at the time of oppofition, fhe
goes through a greater or lefs portion of the earth’s fha¬
dow, as fhe is more or lefs within this limit. Her orbit
contains 360 degrees; of which 17, the limit of folar e-
clipfes on either fide of the nodes, and 12, the limit of
lunar eclipfes, are but fmall portions : And as the fun
commonly paffes by the nodes but twice in a year, it is
no wonder that we have fo many new and full moons
without eclipfes.
To illuftrate this, (Plate XLVI. fig. 1.) let ABCD
Vol. I. No. 20. 3
N O M Y. 477
be the ecliptic, RSTU a circle lying in the fame plane
with the ecliptic, and VIVXYthe moon’s orbit, all thrown
into an oblique view, which gives them an elliptical fliape
to the eye. One half of the moon’s orbit, as F1VX, is
always below the ecliptic, and the other half XYV above
it. The points V and X, where the moon’s orbit inter*
feds the circle RSTU, which lies even with the ecliptic,
are the moon’s nodes ; and a right line, as XEF, drawn
from one to the other, through the earth’s centre, is the
line of the nodes, which is carried almoft parallel to it-
felf round the fun in a year.
If the moon moved round the earth in the orbit
RSTU, which is coincident with the plane of the eclip¬
tic, her lhadow would fall upon the earth every time fhe
is in conjundion with the fun, and at every oppofition
fhe would go through the earth’s lhadow. Were this
the cafe, the fun would be eclipfed at every change, and
the moon at every full, as already mentioned.
But although the moon’s lhadow N muft fall upon the
earth at a, when the earth is at E, and the moon in con-
juhdion with the fun at i, becaufe Ihe is then very near
one of her nodes; and at her oppofition n fhe muft go
through the earth’s Ihadow I, becaufe Ihe is then near
the other node ;' yet, in the time that (fie goes round the
earth to her next change, according to the order of the
letters XYVIV, the earth advances from E to e, accord¬
ing to the order of the letters EFGH, and the line of
the no(ies VEX being carried nearly parallel to itfelf,
brings the point f of the moon’s orbit in conjundion
with the fun at that next change; and then the moon
being at f, is too high above the ecliptic to caft her fha¬
dow on the earth: And as the earth is ftill moving for¬
ward, the moon at her next oppofition will be at g, too
far below the ecliptic to go through any part of the
earth’s lhadow; for by that time the point g will be at a
confiderable diftance from the earth as feen from the fun.
When the earth comes to F, the moon in conjunction
with the fun Z is not at ^ in a plane coincident with
the ecliptic, but above it at Y in the higheft part of her
orbit : and then the point b of her lhadow 0 goes far a-
bove the earth (as in fig. 2. which is an edge view of
fig. 1.) The moon, at her next oppofition, is not at o
(fig. 1.) but at W, where the earth’s ftiadow goes far a-
bove her (as in fig. 2.) In both thefe cafes the line of
the nodes VFX (fig. 1.) is about 90 degrees from the
fun, and both luminaries are as far as pollible from the
limits of the eclipfes.
When the earth has gone half round the ecliptic from
E to G, the line of the nodes VGX is nearly, if not ex¬
actly, directed towards the fun at Z; and then the new-
moon l cafts her lhadow P on the earth G; and the
full moon p goes through the earth’s fhadow L ; which
brings on eclipfes again, as when the earth was at E.
When the earth comes to H, the new moon falls not
at m in a plane coincident with the ecliptic CD, but at
IV m her orbit below it; and then* her lhadow ^ (fee
fig. 2.) goes far below the earth. At the next full fhe
is not at q (fig. 1.) but at Y in her orbit 54 degrees a-
bove 7, and at her greateft height above the ecliptic 67) j
being then as far as poflible, at any oppofition, from the
earth’s fhadow M, as in fig. 2.
So, when the earth is at E and <7, the moon is about
6 E her
478 ASTRO
her nodes at new and full; and in her greateft nerth
and fouth declination (or latitude, as it is generally call¬
ed) from the ecliptic at her quarters : But when the
earth is at F or H, the moon is in her greateft north and
fouth declination from the ecliptic at new and full, and
in the nodes about her quarters.
The point X where the moon’s orbit crofles the e-
cliptic, is called the afcending node, becaufe the moon
afcends from it above the ecliptic : And the oppofite
point of interfe&ion V is called the defending node, be¬
caufe the moon defcends from it below the ecliptic.
When the moon is at T in the higheft point of her orbit,
fhe is in her greateft north latitude; and when (he is at
IV in the loweft point of her orbit, Ihe is in her greateft
fouth latitude.
If the line of the nodes, like the earth’s axis, was car¬
ried parallel to itfelf round the fun, there would be juft
half a year between the conjundtions of the fun and
nodes. But the nodes drift backward, or contrary to the
earth’s annual motion, 19^-deg. every year; and therefore
the fame node-comes round to the fun 19 days fooner e-
very year than on the year before. Confequently, from
the time that the afcending node X (when the earth is at
E) paffes by the fun as feen from the earth, it is only
173 days (not half a year) till the defcending node T
■pafles by him. Therefore, in whatever time of the year
we have eclipfes of the luminaries about either node, we
may be fure that in 173 days afterward we Ihall have e-
ciipfes about the other node. And when at any time of
the year the line of the nodes is in the fituation VGX,
at the fame time next year it will be in the fituation
tGs ; the afcending node having gone backward, that is,
contrary to the order of figns, from X to /, and the de¬
fcending node from F to r -, each 19 ^ deg. At this rate
the nodes fhift through all the figns and degrees of the
ecliptic in 18 years and 225 days ; in which time there
would always be a regular period of eclipfes, if any
complete number of lunations were finilhed without a
fradtion. But this never happens; for if both the fun
and moon fhould ftart from a line of conjunction with
either of the nodes in any point of the ecliptic, the fun
would perform 18 annual revolutions and 222 degrees
over and above, and the moon 230 lunations and 85
degrees of the 231ft, by the time the node came round
to the fame point of the ecliptic again: So that the fun
would then be 138 degrees from the node, and the moon
S5 degrees from the fun.
But, in 223 mean lunations, after the fun, moon, and
nodes, have been once in a line of conjunction, they re¬
turn fo nearly to the fame ftate again, as that the fame
node, which was in conjundion with the fun and moon
at the beginning of the firft of thefe lunations, will be
within 28' 12'’' of a degree of a line of conjunction with
the fun and moon again, when the laft of thefe luna¬
tions is completed. And therefore, in that time there
will be a regular period of eclipfes, or return of the fame
eclipfe, for many ages—In this period, (which was firft
difeovered by the Chaldeans), there are 18 Julian years
11 days 7 hours 43 minutes 20 feconds, when the laft
day of February in leap-years is four times included:
N O M Y.
But when it is five times included, the period confifts
of only 18 years 10 days 7 hours 43 minutes 20 feconds..
Confequently, if to the mean time of any eclipfe, either
of the fun or moon, you add 18 Julian years 11 days
7 hours 43 minutes 20 feconds, when the laft day of Fe¬
bruary in leap-years comes in four times, or a day lefs
when it comes in five times, you will have the mean
time of the return of the fame edipfe.
But the falling back of the line, or conjunctions, or
oppofitions of the fun and moon 28* 12" with refpeCt to
the line of the nodes in every period, will wear it out
in procefs of time ; and after that, it will not return a-
gain in lefs than 12492 years. —Thefe eclipfes of the
fun, which happen about the afcending node, and begin
to come in at the north pole of the earth, will go a little
foutherly at each return, till they go quite off the earth
at the fouth pole ; and tfiofe which happen about the de¬
fcending node, and begin to come in at the fouth pole of
the earth, will go a little northerly at each return, till
at laft they quite leave the earth at the, north pole.
To exemplify this matter, we fhall firft confider the
fun’s eclipfe, (March 21ft old ftyle, April ift new ftyle),
A. D. 1764, according to its mean revolutions, without
equating the times, or the fun’s diftance from the node ;
and then according to its true equated times.
This eclipfe fell in open fpace at each return, quite
clear of the earth, even fince the creation, till A. D.
1295, June 13th old ftyle, at 12 h. 52 m. 59 fee. pojl
meridiem, when the moon’s ftiadow firft touched the
earth at the north pole; the fun being then 170 48/ 27"
from the afcending node.—In each period fince that time,
the fun has come 28' 12" nearer and nearer the fame
node, and the moon’s fhadow has therefore gone more
and more foutherly.—In the year 1962, July 18th old
ftyle, at 10 h. 36 m. 21 fee. />. m. when the fame eclipie
will have returned 38 times, th.e fun will be only 24' 45^
from the afcending node, and the centre of the moon’s
fhadow will fall a little northward of the earth’s centre.
—At the end of the next following period, A. D. 1980,
July 28th old ftyle, at 18 h. 19 m. 41 fee./, m. the fun
will have receded back 3' 27" from the afcending node,
and the moon will have a very fmall degree of fouthern
latitude, which will caufe the centre of her lhadow to
pafs a very fmall matter fouth of the earth’s centre —
After which, in every following period, the fun will be
28 12^ farther back from the afcending node than in the
period laft before ; and the moon’s fhadow will go ftill
farther and farther fouth ward, until September 12 th
old ftyle, at 23 h. 46 m. 22 fee. p. m. A. D. 2665 ;
when the eclipfe will have compleated its 77th periodical
return, and will go quite off the earth at the fouth pole
(the fun being then 170 55' 22-,/ back from the node)
and cannot come in at the north pole, fo as to begin
the fame courfe over again, in lefs than 12492 years after¬
ward.—And fuch will be the cafe of every other eclipfe
of the fun: For,, as there is about 18 degrees on each
fide of the node within which there is a poftibility of e-
clipfes, their whole revolution goes, through 36 degrees
about that node, which, taken from 360 degrees, leaves
remaining 324 degrees for the. eclipfes to travel in ex-
panfuia
ASTRO
fanfamv. And as this 36 degrees is not gone through in
iefs than 77 periods, which takes up 1388 years, the
remaining 324 degrees cannot be fo gone through in
lefs than 12492 years. For, as 36 is to 1388, To is
324 to 12^92.
To illuftrate this a little farther, we fhall examine
fome of the moft remarkable circumftances of the returns
of the eclipfe which happened July 14th 1748, about
noon. This eclipfe, after traverficg the voids of fpace
from the creation, at laft began to enter the Terra Au-
ftralis Incognita about 88 years after the conqueft,
which was the laft of king Stephen’s reign ; every Chal¬
dean period it has crept more northerly, but was ftill in-
vifible in Britain before the year 1622; when, on the
30th of April, it began to touch the fouth parts of Eng¬
land about 2 in the afternoon ; its central appearance ri-
fmg in the American fouth feas, and traverfing Peru and
the Amazon’s country, through the Atlantic ocean into
Africa, and fetting in the ^Ethiopian continent, not far
from the beginning of the Red fea.
Its next vifible period was after three Chaldean revo¬
lutions in 1676, on the firft of June, riling central in the
Atlantic ocean, palling us about 9 in the morning, with
four digits eclipfed on the under limb, and letting in the
gulf of Cochinchina in the Eaft Indies^
It being now near the folltice, this eclipfe was vilible
the very next return in 1694, *n evening; and in
two periods more, which was in 1730, on the 4th of
July, was feen about half eclipfed juft after fun-rife, and
obferved both at Wirtemberg in Germany, and Pekin in
China, foon after which it went off.
Eighteen years more afforded us the eclipfe which fell-
on the 14th of July 1748.
The next vifible return happened on July 25th 1766,
in the evening, about four digits eclipfed; and after two
periods more, will happen on Auguft 16th 1802, early in
the morning, about five digits, the centre coming from,the
north frozen continent, by the capes of Norway, through
Tartary, China and Japan,, to, the Ladrone illands, where
it goes off.
Again, in 1820, Auguft 26th, between one and two,
there will be another great eclipfe at London, about 10
digits; but, happening fo near the equinox, the centre
will leave every part of Britain to the weft, and enter
Germany at Emden, palling by Venice, Naples, Grand
Cairo, and fet in the gulf of Baffora near that city.
It will be no more vifible till 1874, when five digits
will be obfcured (the centre being now about to leave
the earth) on, September 28th. In 1892, the fun will go
down eclipfed in London; and again, in 1928,. the paf-
fage of the centre will be in the expanfum, though there
will be two digits eclipfed at London, Odtober the 31ft
of that year, and about the year 2090. the whole pe¬
numbra will be wore off; whence no more returns of
this eclipfe can happen till after a revolution of 10 tl>ou~
fand years.
N O M Y. 4757
From thefe remarks on the entire revolution of this
eclipfe, we may gather, that a thoufand years, more or
lefs, (for there are fome irregularities that may protradt
or lengthen this period 100 years), complete the whole
terreftrial phenomena of any Angle eclipfe: and fince 20
periods of 54 years each, and about 33 days, compre¬
hend the entire extent of their revolution, it is evident,
that the times of the returns will pafs through a circuit of
one year and ten months, every Chaldean period being
ten or eleven days later, and of the equable appearances,
about 32 or 33 days. Thus, though this eclipfe hap¬
pens about the middle of July, no other fubfequent ec¬
lipfe of this period will return till the middle of the fame
month again ; but wear conftantly each period 10 or 11
days forward, and at laft appear in winter, but then it
begins to ceafe from affedting us.
Another conclufion from t1 is revolution may be
drawn, that there will feldom be any more than two
great echpfes of the fun in the interval of this period,
and thefe follow fometimes next return, and often at
greater diftances. That of 1715 returned again in 1733
very great; but this prefent eclipfe will not be great till
the arrival of 1820, which is a revolution of four Chal¬
dean periods ; fo that the irregularities of their circuits
mull: undergo new computations to affign them exadily.
Nor do all eclipfes come in at the fouth pole : That de¬
pends altogether on the pofition of the lunar nodes, which-
will bring in as many from the expanfum one way as the
other; and fuch eclipfes will wear more foutherly by
degrees, contrary to what happens in the prefent cafe.
The eclipfe, for example, of 1736 in September, had
its centre in the expanfum, and let about the middle of
its obfcurity in Britain ; it will wear in at the north pole,
and in the year 2.600, or thereabouts, go off into the
expanfum on the fouth fide of the earth.
The eclipfes therefore which happened about the cre¬
ation are little more than half way yet of their etherial
circuit; and will be 4000 years before they enter the
earth any more. This grand revolution feems to have
been intirely unknown to the ancients..
It is particularly to be noted, that eclipfes which have
happened many centuries ago, will not be found by our
prefent tables to agree exactly with ancient obfervations,
by reafon of the great anomalies in the lunar motions ;
which appears an inconteftable demonftration of the non¬
eternity of the univerfe. For.it feems confirmed by un¬
deniable proofs, that the moon now finilhes her period in
lefs time than formerly, and will continue, by the cen¬
tripetal law, to approach nearer and nearer the earth,
and to go fooner and fooner round it: Nor will the cen¬
trifugal power be fufficient to compenfate the different
gravitations of fuch an affembkge of bodies as conftitute
the folar fyftem, which would come to ruin of itfeif, with¬
out fome new regulation and adjuftment of their original
motions,
We
# There are two ancient eclipfes of the moon, recorded by Ptolemy from Hipparchus, which afford an undeni-
able proof of the moon's acceleration. The firft of thefe was ohferved at Babylon, Decern. 2 2d, in the year be¬
fore Chrift 383; when the moon began to be eclipfed, about half an hour before the fun rofe, and the eclipfe was
not-
4S0 ASTRO
We are credibly informed from the teftimony of the
ancients, that there was a total eclipfe of the fun pre-
difted by Thales to happen in the fourth year of the
48th Olympiad, either at Sardis or Miletus in Alia,
where Thales then refided. That year correfponds to
the 585th year before Chriil:; when accordingly there
.happened a very fignal eclipfe of the fun, on the 28th of
May, anfwering to the prefent 10th of that month, cen¬
tral through North America, the fouth parts of France,
Italy, fee. as far as Athens, or the ifles in the Aegean
-fea ; which is the fartheft that even the Caroline tables
carry it; and confequently make it invilible to any part
of Alia, in the total chara&er ; though there are good rea-
fons to believe that it extended to Babylon, and went
down central over that city. We are not however to
imagine, that it was fet before it part Sardis and the
Aliatic towns, where the predidtor lived ; becaufe an in¬
vilible eclipfe could have been of no fervice to demon-
flrate his ability in aftronomical fciences to his country¬
men, as it could give no proof of its reality.
For a farther illullration, Thucydides relates, That a
folar eclipfe happened on a fummer’s day in the after¬
noon, in the firlt year of the Peloponnefian war, fo
great, that the ftars appeared. Rhodius was vidtor in
the Olympic games the fourth year of the faid war, be¬
ing alfo the fourth of the 87th Olympiad, on the 428th
year before Chrill. So that the eclipfe mult have hap¬
pened in the 431ft year before Chrift ; and by computa¬
tion it appears, that on the third of Auguft there was a
fignal eclipfe which would have paft over Athens, cen¬
tral about 6 in the evening, but which our prefent tables
bring no farther than the ancient Syrtes on the African
coaft, above 400 miles from Athens ; which fufFering in
that cafe but 9 digits, could by no means exhibit the re¬
markable darknefs recited by this hiftorian ; the centre
therefore feems to have paft Athens about 6 in the even¬
ing, and probably might go down about Jerufalem, or
near it, contrary to the conftrudHon of the prefent tables.
Thefe things are only obviated by way of caution to
the prefent aftronomers, in re-computing ancient e-
clipfes ; and they may examine the eclipfe of Ni-
cias, fo fatal to the Athenian fleet; that which over¬
threw the Macedonian army, fee.
In any year, the number of eclipfes of both luminaries
cannot be lefs than two, nor more than feven ; the moft
ulual number is four, and it is very rare to have more
N O M Y.
than fix. For the fun pafies by both the nodes but once
a-year, unlefs he pafles by one of them in the beginning
of the year ; and if he does, he will pafs by the fame
node again a little before the year be finilhed ; becaufe,
as thefe points move 19-f degrees backward every year,
the fun will come to either of them 173 days after the
other. And when either node is within 17 degrees of
the fun at the time of new moon, the fun will be e-
clipfed. At the fubfequent oppofition, the moon will
be eclipfed in the other node, and come round to the next
conjundion again ere the former node be 17 degrees paft
the fun, and will therefore eclipfe him again. When
three eciipfes fall about either node, the like number ge¬
nerally falls about the oppofite ; as the fun comes to it
in 173 days afterward ; and fix lunations contain but
four days more. Thus, there may be two eclipfes of
the fun, and one of the moon, about each of her nodes.
But when the moon changes in either of the nodes, Ihe
cannot be near enough the other node at the next full to
be eclipfed ; and in fix lunar months afterward ihe will
change near the other node : in thefe cafes there can be
but two eclipfes in a year, and they are both of the fun.
A longer period than the above mentioned, for com¬
paring and examining eclipfes which happen at long in¬
tervals of time, is 557 years, 21 days, 18 hours, 30 mi¬
nutes, 11 feconds ; in which time there are 6890 mean
lunations ; and the fun and node meet again fo nearly as
to be but 11 feconds diftant; but then it is not the fame
eclipfe that returns, as in the ihorter period above men¬
tioned.
A Lift of Eclipfes, and hiftorical Events,
which happened about the fame times, from
Ricciolus.
Before Christ.
My
721
March 19
But, according to an old kalen-
dar, this eclipfe of the fun was on
the 21ft of April, on which day the
foundations of Rome were laid ; if
we may believe Taruntius Fir-
manus.
A total eclipfe of the moon. The
Aflyrian empire at an end ; the Ba¬
bylonian eftabliftied.
not over befere the moon fet: But, by moji of our aftronomical tables, the moon <was fet at Babylon half an hour
before 'the eclipfe began ; in ’which cafe, there could have been no poffibility of obferving it. The fecond eclipfe weas
obferved at Alexandria, Septem. 22d, the year before Chrijl 201; where the moon rofe fo much eclipfed, that
the eclipft mujl have begun about half an hour before Jhe rofe: Whereas, by mojl of our tables, the beginning of
this eclipfe was not till about 10 minutes after the moon rofe at Alexandria. Had thefe eclipfes begun and ended
while the fun was below the horizon, we might have imagined, that as the ancients had no certain way of mea-
furing time, they might have been fo far mifaken in the hours, that we could not have laid any ftrefs on the
.acouvts given by them. But as, in the firjl eclipfe, the moon was fet, and confequently the fun rifen, before it
was over ; and in the fecond eclipfe the fun was fet, and the moon not rifen, till fame time after it began ; thefe
are fuch circumfances as the obfervers could not pofibly be mifaken in. Mr Struyk, in the following catalogue,
motwithfanding the exprefs words of Ptolemy, puts down thefe two eclipfes as obferved at Athens; where they
.might have been feen as above, without any acceleration of the moon's motion, Athens being 20 degrees wef of
Babylon, and 7 degrees wef of Alexandria,
An
Before ChrifL
585 j May 28
523
502
463
43i
413
394
168
July 16
Nov. 19
April 30
April 25
Augufl: 3
Auguft 2 7
Auguft 14
June 21
After Chrift.
59 April 30
April 12
306
840
1009
1133
July 27
May 4
Augufl: 2
ASTRO
An eclipfe of the fun foretold
by Thales, by which a peace was
brought about between the Medes
and Lydians.
An eclipfe of the moon, which
was followed by the death of Cam-
byfes.
An eclipfe of the moon, which
was followed by the flaughter of
the Sabines, and death of Valerius
Publicola.
An eclipfe of the fun. The
Perfian war, and the falling off of
the Perlrans from the Egyptians.
An eclipfe of the moon, which
was followed by a great famine at
•Rome ; and the beginning of the
Peloponnefian war.
A total eclipfe of the fun. A
comet and plague at Athens.
A total eclipfe of the moon.
Nicias with his fhip deflroyed at
Syracufe.
An eclipfe of the fun. The Per-
fians beat by Conon in a fea-en-
gagement.
A total eclipfe of the moon.
The next day Perfeus, king of
Macedonia, was conquered by Pau-
lus Emilius.
An eclipfe of the fun. This is
reckoned among the prodigies, on
account of the murder of Agrippi-
nus by Nero.
A total eclipfe of the fun. A
fign that the reign of the Gordiani
would not continue long. A fixth
perfecution of the Chriflians.
An eclipfe of the fun. The ftars
were feen, and the emperor Con-
llantius died.
A dreadful eclipfe of the fun.
And Lewis the Pious died within fix
months after it.
An eclipfe of the fun. And Je-
rufalem taken by the Saracens.
A terrible eclipfe of the fun.
The ftars were feen. A fchifm in
the church, occafioned by there be¬
ing three Popes at once.
We have not enumerated one half of Ricciolus’s lift of
portentous eclipfes ; and for the fame reafon that he de¬
clines giving any more of them than what that lift con¬
tains, namely, that it is moft difagreeable to dwell any
longer on fuch nonfenfe : the fuperftition of the ancients
may be feen by the few here copied.
Eclipfes of the fun are more frequent than of the moon,
Vol. I. No. 21. 3
N O M r. 48 r
becaufe the fun’s ecliptic limits are greater than the
moon’s ; yet we have more vilible eclipfes of the moon
than of the fun, becaufe eclipfes of the moon are feen
from all parts of that hemifphere of the earth which is
next her, and are equally great to each of thofe parts ;
but the fun’s eclipfes are vifible only to that fmall portion
of the hemifphere next him whereon the moon’s lhadow
falls.
The moon’s orbit being elliptical, and the earth in one
of its focufes, Ihe is once at her leaft diftance from the
earth, and once at her greateft, in every lunation.
When the moon changes at her leaft diftance from the
earth, and fo near the node that her dark lhadow falls
upon the earth, (he appears big enough to cover the
whole dilk of the fun from that part on which her lha¬
dow falls ; and the fun appears totally eclipfed there for
fome minutes : but when the moon changes at her greateft
diftance from the earth, and fo near the node that her
dark lhadow is direded towards the earth, her diameter
fubtends a lefs angle than the fun’s ; and therefore Ihe
cannot hide his whole dilk from any part of the earth,
nor does her lhadow Veach it at that time ; and to the
place over which the point of her lhadow hangs, 'the
eclipfe is annular, the fun’s edge appearing like a lumi¬
nous ring all around the body of the moon. When the
change happens within 17 degrees of the node, and the
moon at her mean diftance from the earth, the point of
her lhadow juft touches the earth, and (he eclipfeth the
fun totally to that fmall fpot whereon her lhadow falls ;
but the darknefs is not of a moment’s continuance.
The moon’s apparent diameter, when largeft, exceeds
the fun’s, when leaft, only 1 minute 38 feconds of a de¬
gree ; and in the greateft eclipfe of the fun that can hap¬
pen at any time and place, the total darknefs continues
no longer than whilft the moon is going 1 minute 38 fe¬
conds from the fun in her orbit, which is about 3 mi¬
nutes and 13 feconds of an hour.
The moon’s dark lhadow covers only a fpot on the
earth’s furface, about 180 Englilh miles broad, when
the moon’s diameter appears largeft, and the fun’s leaft ;
and the total darknefs can extend no farther than the
dark lhadow covers. Yet the moon’s partial lhadow or
penumbra may then cover a circular fpace 4900 miles in
diameter, within all which the fun is more or lefs eclipfed,
as the places are lefs or more diftant from the centre of
the penumbra. When the moon changes exactly in the
node, the penumbra is circular on the earth at the mid¬
dle of the general eclipfe ; becaufe at that time it falls
perpendicularly on the earth’s furface ; but at every o-
ther moment it falls obliquely, and will therefore be el¬
liptical ; and the more fo, as the time is longer before or
after the middle of the general eclipfe ; and then, much
greater portions of the earth’s furface are involved in the
penumbra.
When the penumbra lirft touches the earth, the ge¬
neral eclipfe begins ; when it leaves the earth, the ge¬
neral eclipfe ends : from the beginning to the end the
fun appears eclipfed in Lome part of the earth or other.
When the penumbra touches any place, the eclipfe be¬
gins at that place, and ends when the penumbra leaves
it. When the moon changes in the node, the penumbra
t 6 F goes
482 ASTRO
goes over the centre of the earth’s difk as feen from the
mofin ; and confequently, by defcribing the longeft line
poffible on the earth, continues the longed upon it;
namely, at a mean rate, 5 hours 50 minutes ; more, if
the moon be at her greateft diftance from the earth, be-
caufe flie then moves flowed ; lefs, if fhe be at her lead
didance, becaufe of her quicker motion.
To make feveral of the above and other phenomena
plainer, (Plate XLVI. fig. 3.), let 5 be the fun, £ the
the earth, M the moon, and JMP the moon’s orbit.
Draw the right line J¥c 12 from the wedern fide of the
fun at IV, touching the wedern fide of the moon at c,
and the earth at 12 : draw alfo the right line Vd 12 from
the eadern fide of the fun at V, touching the eadern fide
of the moon at d, and the earth at 12 : the dark fpace
cs\2d included between thofe lines is the moon’s fha-
dow, ending in a point at 12, where it touches the
earth ; becaufe in this cafe the moon is fuppofed to
change at M in the middle between 4 the apogee, or
farthed point of her orbit from the earth, and P the
perigee, or neared point to it. For, had the point P
been at M, the moon had been nearer the earth ; and
her dark fliadow at e would have covered a fpace upon it
about 180 miles broad, and the fun would have been
totally darkened, with foipe continuance : but had the
point A been at M, the moon would have been
farther from the earth, and her fliadow would have
ended in a point about e, and therefore the fun would
have appeared like a luminous ring all around the moon.
Draw the right lines IVXdh and VXcg, touching the
contrary fides of the fun and moon, and ending on the
earth at a and £ : draw alfo the right line SXM12,
from the centre of the fun’s difk, through the moon’s
centre, to the earth at 12 ; and fuppofe the two former
lines WXdh and VXcg to revolve on the line SXM12 as
an axis, and their points a and b will deferibe the limits
of the penumbra TT on the earth’s furface, including
the large fpae'e ao^i2it ; within which the fun appears
more or lefs eefipfed, as the places are more or lefs di-
flant from the verge of the penumbra aob.
Draw the right line^12 acrofs the fun’s difk, perpen¬
dicular to. SXM the axis of the penumbra : then divide
the line ^'12 into twelve equal parts, as in the figure, for
the twelve digits or equal parts of the fun’s diameter ;
and, at equal diftances from the centre of the penumbra
at 12 (on the earth’s furface YT) to its edge aob, draw
twelve concentric circles, as marked with the numeral
figures 1234 <bc. and remember that the moon’s mo¬
tion in 1 er orbit AMP is from weft to eaft, as from s
to t. Then,
To an obferver on the earth at b, the eaftern limb of
the moon at d feems to touch the weftern limb of the fun
at IV, when the moon is at M; and the fun’s eclipfe be¬
gins at b, appearing as at A in Plate XLVII. fig. 1. at
the left hand • but, at the fame moment of abfolute time
to an obferver at a in Plate XLVI. fig. 3, the weftein
edge of the moon at c leaves the eaftern edge of the fun
at V, and the eclipfe ends, as at the right hand C, Plate
XLVII. fig 1. At the very fame inftant, to all thofe
who live on the circle marked 1 on die earth E, in Plate
XLVI. fig. 3. the moon M cuts off er darkens a twelfth
part of the fun S, and ecjipfes him one digit, as at 1 in
N O M Y.
Plate XLVII. fig, 1. : to thofe who live on the circle
marked 2 in Plate XLVI. figi 3 . the moon cuts off two
twelfth parts of the fun, as at 2 in Plate XLVII.
fig. 1.; to thofe on the circle 3, three parts ; and fo on
to the centre at 12 in Plate XLVI. fig. 3. where the
fun is centrally eclipfed, as at B in the middle of fig. 1.
Plate XLVII. ; under which figure there is a fcale of
hours and minutes, to fhew at a mean ftate how long it
is from the beginning to the end of a central eclipfe of
the fun on the parallel of London ; and how many di¬
gits are eclipfed at any particular time from the beginning
at A to the middle at B, or the end at C. Thus, in 16
minutes from the beginning, the fun is two digits e-
clipfed ; in an hour and five minutes, eight digits ; and
in an hour and 37 minutes, 12 digits.
By Plate XLVI. fig. 3. it is plain, that the fun is totally
or centrally eclipfed but to a fmall part of the earth at any
time ; becaufe the dark conical fliadow e of the moon
M falls but on a fmall part of the earth ; and that the
partial eclipfe is confined at that time to the fpace in¬
cluded by the circle aob, of which only one half can be
projeifted in the figure, the other half being fuppofed to
be hid by the convexity of the earth E: and likewife,
that no part of the fun is eclipfed to the large fpace YY
of the earth, becaufe the moon is not between the fun
and any of that part of the earth : and therefore to all
that part the eclipfe is invifible. The earth turns eaft-
ward on its axis, as from g to b, which is the fame way
that the moon’s fliadow moves ; but the moon’s motion
is much fwifter in her orbit from i to / : and therefore,
although eclipfes of the fun are of longer duration on
account of the earth’s motion on its axis than they would
be if that motion was ftopt, yet, in four minutes of time
at moft, the moon’s fwifter motion carries her dark flia¬
dow quite over any place that its centre touches at the
time of greateft obfeuration. The motion of the fiia-
dow on the earth’s difk is equal to the moon’s motion
from the fun, which is about 30^ minutes of a degree
every hour at a mean rate ; but fo much of the moon’s
orbit is equal to 30P degrees of a great circle on the
earth; and therefore the moon’s fhadow goes 304 de¬
grees, or 1830 geographical miles on the earth in an
hour, or 304 miles in a minute, which is almoft four
times as fwift as the motion of a cannon-ball.
As feen from the fun or moon, the earth’s axis ap¬
pears differently inclined every day of the year, on ac¬
count of keeping its parallelifm throughout its annual
courfe. In Plate XLVII. fig. 2. let EDON be the
earth at the two equinoxes and the two folftices, NS its
axis, TV the north pole, S the fouth pole, jE-^the e-
quator, T the tropic of Cancer, / the tropic of Capri¬
corn, and ABC the circumference of the earth’s en¬
lightened difk as feen from the fun or new moon at thefe
times. The earth’s axis has the pofition NES at the
vernal equinox, lying towards the right hand, as feen
from the fun or new moon ; its poles N and S being
then in the circumference of the difk ; and the equator
and all its parallels feem to be ftraight lines, becaufe
their planes pafs through the obferver’s eye looking down
upon the earth from the fun or moon direrily over E,
where the ecliptic EG interfeffs the equator AL. At the
fummer folftice, the earth’s axis has the pofition NDS ;
ASTRO
and that part of the ecliptic FG, in which the moon is
then new, touches the tropic of Cancer T ax D. The
north pole A^at that time inclining 2 3^ degrees towards
the fun, falls fo many degrees within the earth’s en¬
lightened difk, becaufe the fun is then vertical to D,
2 3t degrees north of the equator and the equator
with all its parallels feem elliptic curves bending down¬
ward, or towards the fouth pole, as feen from the fun ;
which pole, together with 2^ degrees all round it, is
hid behind the diflc in the dark hemifphere of the earth.
At the autumnal equinox, the earth’s axis has the po-
fition NOS, lying to the left hand as feen from the fun
or new moon, which are then vertical to 0, where the
ecliptic cuts the equator Both poles now lie in
the circumference of the diik, the north pole juft going
to difappear behind it, and the fouih pole juft entering
into it ; and the equator, with all its parallels, feem to
be ftraight lines, becaufe their planes pafs through the
obferver’s eye, as feen from the fun, and very nearly fo
as feen from the moon. At the winter folftice, the
earth’s axis has the pofition NNS ; when its fouth pole
S inclining 23-I- degrees toward the fun, falls 23! fte'
grees within the enlightened dilk, as feen from the fun
or new moon, which are then vertical to the tropic of
Capricorn t, 231 degrees fouth of the equator and
the equator, with all its parallels, feem elliptic curves
bending upward; the north pole being as far hid be¬
hind the difk in the dark hemifphere, as the fouth pole
is come into the light. The nearer that any time of the
year is to the equinoxes or folftices, the more it partakes
of the phenomena relating to them.
Thus it appears, that from the vernal equinox to the
autumnal, the north pole is enlightened ; and, the equa¬
tor, and all its parallels, appear elliptical as feen from
the fun, more or lefs curved as the time is nearer to, or
farther from, the fummer folftice ; and bending down¬
wards, or towards the fouth pole ; the revtrfe of which
happens from the au umnal equinox to the vernal. A
little confideration will be fufficient to convince the
reader, that the earth’s axis inclines towards the fun at
the fummer folftice ; from the fun at the winter folftice ;
and fidewife to the fun at the equinoxes ; but towards
the right hand, as feen from the fun at the vernal equi¬
nox ; and towards the left hand at the autumnal. From
the winter to the fummer folftice, the earth’s axis in¬
clines more or lefs to the right hand, as feen from the
fun ; and the contrary from the fummer to the winter
folftice.
The different politicos of the earth’s axis, as feen.
from the fun at different times of the year, affeA folar
eclipfes greatly with regard to particular places ; yea, fo
far as would make central eclipfes which fall at one time
of the year invifible if they fell at another, even though
the moon Ihould always change in tlfe nodes, and at the
fame hour of the day, of which indefinitely various af¬
fections, we flrall only give examples for the times of tire
equinoxes and folftices.
In the fame diagram, (Plate XLVTI. fig.. 2.), let FG
be part of the ecliptic, and IK, ik, ik, ik, part of the
moon’s orbit; both feen edgewife, and therefore pro¬
jected into right lines ; and let the interfeCtions NODE
N O M Y. 485
be one and the fame node at the above times, when the.
earth has the forementioned different pofitions ; and let
the fpaces included by the circles Pppp be the penumbra
at thefe times, as its centre is pafling over the centre of
the earth’s difk. At the winter folftice, when the earth’s
axis has the pofition NlsS, the centre of the penumbra
P touches the' tropic of Capricorn f in at the middle
of the general eclipfe ; but no part of the penumbra
touches the tropic of Cancer T. At the fummer fol¬
ftice, when the earth’s axis has the pofition NDS (iDi
being then part of the moon’s orbit, whofe node is at
D) the penumbra p has its centre at D, on the tropic
of Cancer T", at the middle of the general eclipfe, and
then no part of it touches the tropic of Capricorn t.
At the autumnal equinox, the earth’s axis has the po¬
fition NOS, (iOk being then part of the moon’s orbit),
and the penumbra equally includes part of both tropics
T and t at the middle of the general eclipfe : at the ver¬
nal equinox it does the fame, becaufe the earth’s axis
has the pofition NES ; but, in the former of thefe two
laft cafes, the penumbra enters the earth at /}, north of
the tropic of Cancer T, and leaves it at m, fouth of the
tropic of Capricorn t ; having gone over the earth ob¬
liquely fouthward, as its centre deferibed the line KOtn :
whereas, in the latter cafe, the penumbra touches the
earth at w, fouth of the equator JE^, and deferibing
the line wAy, (fimilar to the former line dOm in open
Ipace), goes obliquely northward over the earth, and
leaves it at q, north of the equator.
In all thefe circumftances, the moon has been fuppo-
fed to change at noon in her dcfcer.ding node: Had ihe
changed in her afeending node, the phenomena would
have been as various the contrary way, with refpeA to
the penumbra’s going northward or fouthward over the
earth. But becaufe the moon changes at all hours, as
often in one node as in the other, and at all diftances
from them both at different times as it happens, the va¬
riety of the phafes of eclipfes are aimoft innumerable, e-
ven at the fame places; confidering alfo how varioufly
the fame places .are fitnated on the enlightened diik of
the earth, with refpedt to the penumbra’s motion, at the
different hours when eclipfes happen.
When the moon changes 17 degrees fhort of her de-
feending node, the penumbra P 18 juft touches the nor¬
thern part of the earth’s diik, near the north pole N;
and, as feen from that place, the moon appears to touch
the fun, but hides no part of him from fight. Had the
change been as far ftiort of the afeending node, the pe¬
numbra would have touched the fouthern part of the diik
near the fouth pole S. When the moon changes 12 de¬
grees (hort of the defeending node, more than a third part
of the penumbra Pi 2 falls on the northern parts of the
earth at the middle of the general eclipfe: Had ihe changed
as far part the fame node, as much of the other ftde of the
penumbra about P would have fallen on the fouthern
part of the earth; all the reft in the expanfum, or open
ipace. When the moon changes 6 degrees from the
node, aimoft the whole penumbra P6 falls on the eaith’
at the middle of the general eclipfe. And laftly, when
the moon changes in the node at N, the penumbra PN
takes the longeft courfe poffible oathe earth’s diik ; its
centre;
434 ASTRO
centre falling on the middle thereof, at the middle of the
general eclipfe. The farther the moon changes from
either node, v/ithin 17 degrees of it, the fhorter is the
penumbra’s continuance on the earth, becaufe it goes o-
ver a lefs. portion of the difle, as is evident by the fi-
gure.
The nearer that*the penumbra’s centre is to the equa¬
tor at the middle of the general eclipfe, the longer is the
duration of the eelipfe at all thofe places where it is
central; becaufe, the nearer that any place is to the e-
quator, the greater is the circle it deferibes by the
earth’s motion on its axis: And fo, the place moving
quicker, keeps longer in the penumbra, whofe motion is
the fame way with that of the place, though fafter, as
has been already mentioned. Thus (fee the earth at
.D and the penumbra at 12) whillt the point h in the
polar circle is carried from £ to c by the earth’s
diurnal motion, the point d on the tropic of Cancer T
is carried a much greater length from dxoD; and there¬
fore, if the penumbra’s centre goes one time over c and
another time over D, the penumbra will be longer in
palling over the moving place d than it was in palling o-
ver the moving place b. Confequetuly, central eclipfes
about the poles are of the Ihortell duration ; and about
the equator of the lorigefh
In the middle of fummer, the whole frigid zone, in¬
cluded by the polar circle abed, is enlightened; and if it
then happens, that the penumbra’s centre goes over the
north pole, the fun will be eclipfed much the fame num¬
ber of digits at U as at c; but whilll the penumbra moves
eallward over c, it moves weftward over a; becaufe,
with refped: to the penumbra, the motions of a and c
are contrary : For <; moves the fame way with the pe¬
numbra towards d, but a moves the contrary way to¬
wards b ; and therefore the eclipfe will be of longer du¬
ration at c than at a. At a the eclipfe begins on the fun’s
eaftern limb, but at c on his weftern: At all places lying
without the polar circles, the fun’s eclipfes begin on his
weftern limb, or near it, and end on or near his eaftern.
At thofe places where the penumbra touches the earth,
the eclipfe begins with the riling fun, on the top of his
weftern or uppermoft edge ; and at thofe places where
the penumbra leaves the earth, the eclipfe ends with the
fetting fun, on the top of his eaftern edge, which is then
the uppermoft, juft at its difappearing in the horizon.
If the moon were furrounded by an atmofphere of any
confiderable denfity, it would feem to touch the fun a
little before the moon made her appulfe to-his edge,
and we Ihould fee a little faintnefs on that edge before it
were eclipfed by the moon: But as no fuch faintnefs has
been obferved, it feems plain, that the moon has no fuch
atmofphere as that of the earth. The faint ring of light
furrounding the fun in total eclipfes, called by Caflini
la cbevelure du foleil, feems to be the atmofphere of the
fun; becaufe it has been obferved to move equally with
the fun, not with the moon.
Having been fo prolix concerning eclipfes of the fun,
we lhall drop that fubjedt at prefent, and proceed to the
-dodtrine of lunar eclipfes ; which, being more Ample,
may be explained in lefs time.
That the moon can never be eclipfed but at the time
N O M Y.
of her being full, and the reafon why fhe is not eclipfed
at every full, has been {hewn already. InPlateXLVI. fig.3.
let S be the fun, E the earth, RR the earth’s (hadow, and
and B the moon in oppofition to the fun: In this fitua-
tion the earth intercepts the fun’s light in its way to the
moon ; and when the moon touches the earth’s fliadow at
v, (he begins to be eclipfed on her eaftern limb x, and
continues eclipfed until her weftern limb y leaves the fha-
dow at to; At B Ihe is in the middle of the fliadow,
and confequently in the middle of the eclipfe.
The moon, when totally eclipfed, is not invifible if fhe
be above the horizon and the Iky be clear; but appears
generally of a dulky colour, like tarnifhed copper, which
fome have thought to be the moon’s native light. But
the true caufe of her being vifible is the fcattered beams
of the fun, bent, into the earth’s fhadow by going
through the atmofphere; which, being more or lefs
denfe near the earth than at confiderable heights above
it, refradts or bends the fun’s rays more inward, the
nearer they are paffing by the earth’s furface, than thofe
rays which go through higher parts of the atmofphere,
where it is lefs denfe according to its height, until it be
fo thin or rare as to lofe its refradtive power. Let the
circle fgbi, concentric to the earth, include the atmo¬
fphere whofe refradtive power vanifties at the heights f
and i; fo that the rays Wf<w and Viv go on ftraight
without fuffering the leaft refradtion : But all thofe rays
which enter the atmofphere between f and k, and be¬
tween i and /, on oppofite fides of the earth, are gradual¬
ly more bent inward as they go through a greater por¬
tion of the atmofphere, until the rays Wk and VI touch¬
ing the earth at m and n, are bent fo much as to meet
at q, a little ftiort of the moon ; and therefore the dark
Ihadow of the earth is contained in the fpace mcqpn,
where none of the fun’s rays can enter : All the reft 11R,
being mixed by the fcattered rays which are refradted as
above, is in fome meafure enlightened by them ; and
fome of thofe rays falling on the moon, give her the
colour of tarniftied copper, or of iron almoft red hot.
So that if the earth had no atmofphere, the moon would
be as invifible in total eclipfes as fhe is when new. If
the moon were fo near the earth as to go into its dark
fliadow, fuppofe about po, (lie would be invifible during
her ftay in it; but vifible before and after in the fainter
Ihadow RR.
When the moon goes through the centre of the earth’s
fliadow, flie is diredtly oppofite to the lun: Yet the
moon has been often feen totally eclipfed in the horizon
when the fun was alfo vifible in the oppofite part of it:
For, the horizontal refradtion being almoft 34 minutes
of a degree, and the diameter of the fun and moon being
each at a mean ftate but 32 minutes, the refradtion caufes
both luminaries to appear above the horizon when they
are really below it.
When the moon is full at 12 degrees from either of
her nodes, flie juft touches the earth’s fliadow, but en¬
ters not into it. In Plate XLVIL fig. 3. let CH be the e-
cliptic, e/the moon’s orbit where (he is 12 degrees from
the node at her full; cd her orbit where flie is 6 degrees
from the node, ab her orbit where flie is full in the
node, 4B the earth’s fliadow, and M the moon. When
the
ASTRO
the moon defcribes the line ef, (he jufl: touches the (ha-
dow, but does not enter into it; when (he defcribes the
line cd, (he is totally, though not centrally, immerfed
in the (hadow ; and when (he defcribes the line ab, (he
paffes by the node at M in the centre of the (hadow, and
takes the longed line poflible, which is a diameter, thro’
it: And fuch an eclipfe being both total and central is
of the longed duration, namely, 3 hours 57 minutes 6
feconds from the beginning to the end, if the moon be at
her greated didance from the earth; and 3 hours 37
minutes 26 feconds, if (he be at her lead didance. The
reafon of this difference is, that when the moon is far-
thed from the earth, (he moves dowed; and when near¬
ed to it, quicked.
The moon’s diameter, as well as the fun’s, is fuppo-
fed to be divided into twelve equal parts, called digits ;
and fo many of thefe parts as are darkened by the earth’s
(hadow, fo many digits is the moon eclipfed. All that
the moon is eclipfed above 12 digits, (hew how far the
(hadow of the earth is over the body of the moon, on
that edge to which (he is neared at the middle of the e-
clipfe.
It is difficult to obferve exaftly either the beginning
or ending of a lunar eclipfe, even with a good telefcope ;
becaufe the earth’s (hadow is fo faint and ill defined a-
bout the edges, that when the moon is either jud touch¬
ing or leaving it, the obfcuration of her limb is fcarce
fenfible; and therefore the niced obfervers can hardly be
certain to four or five feconds of time. But both the
beginning and ending of folar eclipfes are vifibly indan-
taneous ; for the moment that the edge of the moon’s
di(k touches the fun’s, his roundnefs feems a little broke
on that part; and the moment die leaves it, he appears
perfedlly round again.
In adronomy, eclipfes of the moon are of great ufe for
afcertaining the periods of her motions ; efpecially fuch
eclipfes as are obferved to be alike in all her circumdan-
ces, and have long intervals of time between them. In
geography, the longitudes of places are found by eclip¬
fes : But for this purpofe eclipfes of the moon are more
ufeful than thofe of the fun, becaufe they are more fre¬
quently vifible, and the fame lunar eclipfe is of equal
largenefs and duration at all places where it is feen. In
chronology, both folar and lunar eclipfes ferve to deter¬
mine exadly the time of any pad event: for there are fo
many particulars obfervable in every eclipfe, with refpeft
to its quantity, the places where it is vifible (if of the
fun) and the time of the day or night, that it is impof-
fible there can be two folar eclipfes in the courfe of ma¬
ny ages which are alike in all circumdances.
From the above explanation of the do&rine of eclip¬
fes it is evident, that the darknefs at our Saviour’s cru¬
cifixion was fupernatural. For he fuffered on the day
on which the pafibver was eaten by the Jews, on which
day it was impoffible that the moon’s (hadow could fall
on the earth; for the Jews kept the palfover at the time
of full moon : Nor does the darknefs in total eclipfes of
the fun lad above four minutes in any place; whereas
the darknefs at the crucifixion laded three hours, Matth.
xxviii. 15. and ovetfpread at lead all the land of Ju¬
dea.
Vol.J. Numb. 21.
N O M Y. 485
With regard to the method of calculating and pro"
je&ing eclipfes, we mud refer the reader to the adrono-
mical tables of Mr Fergufon and others. When the
principles are explained, the application and ufe of the
tables is a matter of fraail difficulty, and eafily acquired
by a little practice.
Chap. XVII. Of the fixed Stars.
The dars are faid to be fixed, becaufe they have
been generally obferved to keep at the fame didances
from each other : their apparent diurnal revolutions be¬
ing caufedfolely by the earth’s turning on its axis. They
appear of a fenfible magnitude to the bare eye, becaufe
the retina is affedled not only by the rays of light which
are emitted dire&ly from them, but by many thoufands
more, which, falling upon our eye-lids, and upon the
aerial particles about us, are refledied into our eyes fo
drongly as to excite vibrations not only in thofe points
of the retina where the real images of the dars are form¬
ed, but alfo in other points at fome didance round a-
bout. This makes us imagine the dars to be much big¬
ger than they would appear, if we faw them only by the
few rays which come direftly from them, fo as to enter
our eyes without being intermixed with others. Any
one may be fenfible of this, by looking at a dar of the
fird magnitude through a long narrow tube; which,
though it takes in as much of the (Icy as would hold
a thoufand fuch dars, yet fcarce renders that one vi¬
fible.
The more a telefcope magnifies, the lefs is the aper¬
ture through which the dar is feen; and confequently
the fewer rays it admits into the eye. Now fince the
dars appear lefs in a telefcope which magnifies 200
times, than they do to the bare eye, infomuch that they
feem to be only indivifible points, it proves at once that
the dars are at immenfe didances from us, and that they
(hine by their own proper light. If they (hone by bor¬
rowed light, they would be as invifible without tele-
fcopes as the fatellites of Jupiter are; for thefe (atellites
appear bigger when viewed with a good telefcope than
the larged fixed dars do.
The number of dars difcoverable, in either hemifphere,
by the naked eye, is not above a thoufand. This at
fird may appear incredible, becaufe they feem to be with¬
out number: But the deception arifes from our looking
confufedly upon them, without reducing them into order.
For, look but dedfadly upon a pretty large portion of
the (ley, and count the number of dars in it, and you
will be furprifed to find them fo few. Or, if one con-
fiders how feldom the moon meets with any dars in her
way, although there are as many about her path as in
other parts of the heavens, he will foon be convinced
that th.e dars are much thinner fown than he was aware
of. The Britifn catalhgue, which, befides the dars vi¬
fible to the hare eye, includes a great number which
cannot be feen without t'he affidance of a telefcope, eon-
.tains no more than three thoufand, in both hemifpheres.
As we'.have incomparably more light from the moon
than from all. the dars together, it were the greated ab-
f 6 G furdity
3
486 ASTRO
furdity to imagine that the flats were made for no other
purpofe than to caft a faint light upon the earth; efpe-
cially lince many more require the afliflance of a good te-
lefcope to find them out, than are vifible without that
inftrument. Our fun is furrounded by a fyftem of pla¬
nets and comets; all which would be invifible from the
neareft fixed liar. And from what we already know of
the immecfe diftance of the flats, the nearefl may be
computed at 32,000,000,000,000 of miles from us,
which is farther than a cannon-bullet would fly in
7,000,00a of years. Hence it is eafy to prove, that
the fun, feen from fuch a diflance, would appear no
bigger than a ftar of the firfl magnitude. From, all this
it is highly probable, that each flar is a fun to a fyflem
of worlds moving round it, though unfeen by us ; efpe-
ciaily as the dodtrine of a plurality of worlds is rational,
and greatly manifefts the power, wifdom, and goodnefs
of the great Creator.
The flats, on account of their apparently various mag¬
nitudes, have been diflributed into feveral clafles, or or¬
ders. Thofe which appear largefl, are called Jiars of
ibe firji magnitude \ the next to them in luflre, Jiars of
the fecond magnitude; and fo on the fixth, which are
the fmallefl that are vifible to the bare eye. This diflri-
bution having been made long before the invention of
telefcopes, the flars which cannot be'feen without the
afliflance of thefe inllraments, are diftinguifhed by the
name of telefcopic flars.
The ancients divided the flarry fphere into particular
conflellations, or fyflems of flars, according as they lay
near one another, fo as to occupy thofe fpaces which the
figures of different forts of animals or things would take
tip, if they were there delineated. And thofe ftars
which could not be brought into any particular conflella-
tion, were called unformed Jiars.
This divifion of the flars into difl’erent conflellations
or aflerifms, ferves to diftinguifh them from one another,
fo that any particular flar may be readily found in the
heavens by means of a celeflial globe; on which the
conflellations are fo delineated, as to put the mofl remark¬
able flars into fuch parts of the figures as are raofl eafily
diflinguifhed. The number of the ancient conflellations
is 48, and upon our prefent globes about 70. On Se-
nex’s globes are inferred Bayer’s letters; the firfl in the
Greek alphabet being put to the biggeft flar in each con-
llellation, the fecond to the next, and fo on : By which
N O M Y.
means, every flar is as eafily found as if a name were
given to it. Thus, if the flar y in the conflellation of
the ram be mentioned, every aftronomer knows as well
what flar is meant as if it were pointed out to him in the
heavens.
There is alfo a divifion of the heavens into three parts.
1. The Zodiak from zodion, an animal,
becaufe mofl of the conflellations in it, which are twelve
in number, are the figures of animals: As Aries the
ram, Taurus the bull, Gemini the twins, Cancer the
crab, Leo the lion, Virgo the virgin, Libra the balance,
Scorpio the fcorpion, Sagittarius the archer, Capricor-
nus the goat, Aquarius the water-bearer, and Pifces
the fifties. The zodiac goes quite round the heavens :
it is about 16 degrees broad, fo that it takes in the orbits
of all the planets, and likewife the orbit of the moon.
Along the middle of this zone or belt is the ecliptic, or
circle which the earth defcribes annually as feen from
the fun ; and which the fun appears to defcribe as feen
from the earth. 2. All that region of the heavens,
which is on the north fide of the zodiac, containing
twenty-one conflellations. And, 3. That on the fouth
fide, containing fifteen.
The ancients divided the zodiac into the above twelve
conflellations or figns in the following manner. They
took a veflel with a fmall hole in the bottom, and having
filled it with water, fufFered the fame to diftil drop by
drop into another veflel fet beneath to receive it; be¬
ginning at the moment when fome flar rofe, and conti¬
nuing until it rofe the next following night. The water
fallen down into the receiver they divided into twelve e-
qual parts; and having two other fmall veffels in readi-
nefs, each of them fit to contain one part, they again
poured all the water into the upper veflel, and obierving
the rifing of fome flar in the zodiac, they at the fame
time fufFered the water to drop into one of the fmall
veflels; and as foon as it was full, they fhifted it, and
fet an empty one in its place. When each veflel was
full, they took notice what flar of the zodiac rofe; and
though this could not be done in one night, yet in ma¬
ny they obferved the rifing of twelve flars or points,
by which they divided the zodiac into twelve parts.
The names of the conflellations, and the number of
flars obferved in each of them by different aflronomers,
are as follow.
Urfa minor
Urfa major
Draco
Cepheus
Bootes, ArGoph'ilax.
Corona Borealis
Hercules, Engonafm
Lyra
Cygnus, Gallina
Cafliopea
Perfeus
Auriga
Serpentariuc, Ojhiuchus
The ancient Conflellations.
The Little Bear
The Great Bear
The Dragon
Cepheus
The Northern Crown
Hercules kneeling
The Harp
The Swan
The Lady in her Chair
Perfeus
The Waggoner
Serpentarius
Ptolemy.
8
35
31
13
23
8
29
10
19
13
29
Tycho.
7
29
32
4
18
8
28
26
29
9
15
73
40
51
52
8
45
W
47
37
46
40
49
Flamjlecd.
24
87
80
35
54
21
21
81
55
59-
66
74
ASTRONOMY.
487
The
Serpens
Sagitta
Aquila, Vultur
Antinous
Delphinus
Equulus, Equi fetth
Pegafus, Equus
Andromeda
Triangulum
Aries
Taurus
Gemini
Cancer
Leo
Coma Berenices
Virgo
Libra, Chela
Scorpius
Sagittarius
Capricornus
Aquarius
Pifces
Cetus
Orion
Eridanus, Fluvius
Lepus
Canis major
Canis minor
Argo Navis
Hydra
Crater
Corvus
Centaurus
Lupus
Ara
Corona Auftralis
Pifcis Auftralis
ancient Conftellations.
The Serpent
The Arrow
The Eagle 7
Antinous 3
The Dolphin
9 The Horfe’s Head
The Flying Horfe
Andromeda
The Triangle
The Ram
The Bull
The Twins
The Crab
The Lion 7
Berenice’s Hair 3
The Virgin
The Scales
The Scorpion
The Archer
The Goat
The Water-bearer
The Fifties
The Whale
Orion
Eridanus, the River
The flare
The Great Dog
The Little Dog
The Ship
The Hydra
The Cup
The Crow
The Centaur
Tiie Wolf
The Altar
The Southern Crown
The Southern Filh
Ptolemy.
18
5
IJ
18
44
35
23
17
24
3i
28
4J
38
45
27
7
7
37
J9
7
13
18
Tycho.
13
5
19
23
43
25
15
30
14
33
14
28
13
13
2
3
19
3
4
Hevelius. FlamJLcd.
64
5
23
19
14
6
38
47
12
27
5i
38
29
49
29
47
39
45
62
27
16
21
13
4
31
18
7i
18
10
89
66
16
66
141
85
83
95
43
no
5i
44
69
5i
108
113
97
78
84
19
3i
14
64
60
3i
9
35.
24
9
The new Southern Conftellations.
Columba Noachi
Robur Carolinum
Grus
Phoenix
Indus
Pavo
Apus, dvis Indica
Apis, Mufca
Chamasleon
Triangulum Auftralis
Pifcis volans, Paffer
Dorado, Xiphias
Toucan
Hydrus
Noah’s Dove 10
The Royal Oak 12
The Crane 13
The Phenix 13
The Indian 12
The Peacock 14
The Bird of Paradife 11
The Bee or Fly 4
The Chameleon 10
The South Triangle 5
The Flying Fifti 8
The Sword Filh 6
The American Goofe 9
The Water Snake 10
Hevelius's Cancellations made out of the unformed Stars.
Hevel. Flamjl.
Lynx
Leo minor
The Lynx
The Little Lion
44
53
Hevel. Flamjl.
Afterion St Chara The Greyhounds 23 25
Cerberus Cerberus 4
Vulpecula & Anfer The Fox and Goofe 27 35
Scutum Sobielki
Lacerta
Camelopardalus
Monocerns
Sextans
Sobielki’s Shield
The Lizard
The Camelopard
The Unicorn
The Sextant
32
19
16
58
31
41
There is a remarkable track round the heavens, call¬
ed the Milky IVay> from its peculiar whitenefs, which
was formerly thought to be owing to a vaft number of
very fmall ftars therein : but the telefcope ftiews it to be
quite otherwife ; and therefore its whitenefs muft be ow¬
ing to fome other caufe. This track appears Angle in
fome parts, in otliers double.
There are feveral little whitilh fpots in the heavens,
which appear magnified, and more luminous when feen
through telefcopes ; yet without any liars in them. One
of thefe is in Andromeda’s girdle, and was firft obferved
A. D. 1612, by Simon Marius: it has fome whitilh
rays
4S8 ASTRO
rays near its middle, is liable to feveral changes, and is
fometimes invifible. Another is near the ecliptic, be¬
tween the head and,bow of Sagittarius: it is fmall, but
very luminous. A third is on the back of the Centaur,
which is too far fouth to be feen in Britain. A fourth,
of a fmaller fize, is before Antinous’s right foot j having
a flar in it, which-makes it appear more bright. A fifth
is in the eonllellation of Hercules, between the ftars £
and u, which fpot, though but fmall, is vifible to the
bare eye, if the Iky be clear and the moon abfent.
Cloudy Jlars are‘fo called from their mifty appearance.
They look like dim ftars to the naked eye ; but through
a telefcope they appear broad illuminated parts of the
Iky ; in fome of which is one ftar, in others more- Five
of thefe are mentioned by Ptolemy, i. One at the ex¬
tremity of the right hand of Perfeus. 2. One in the
middle of the Crab. 3. One unformed, near the fling
of the Scorpion. 4. The eye of Sagittarius. 5. One
in the head of Orion. In the firft of thefe appear more
ftars through the telefcope than in any of the reft, al¬
though 21 have been counted in the head of Orion, and
above 40 in that of the Crab. Two are vifible in the
eye of Sagittarius without a telefcope, and feveral more
with it. Flamfteed obferved a cloudy ftar in the bow of
Sagittarius, containing many fmall ftars ; and the ftar d
above Sagittarius’s right Ihoulder is encompafled with
feveral more. Both Caffini and Flamfteed difcovered
one between the Great and Little Dog, which is very
full of ftars vifible only by the telefcope. The two
whitilh fpots near the fouth pole, called the Magellanic
Clouds by Sailors, which to the bare eye referable part
of the Milky Way, appear through telefcopes to be a
mixture of fmall clouds and ftars. But the moft re¬
markable of all the cloudy ftars is that in the middle of
Orion’s Sword, where feven ftars (of which three are
very clofe together) feem to fliine through a cloud, very
lucid near the middle, but faint and ill defined about the
edges. It looks like a gap in the Iky, through which
one may fee (as it were) part of a much brighter re¬
gion. Although moft of thefe fpaces are but a few mi¬
nutes of a degree iji breadth, yet, fince they are among
the fixed ftars, they muft be fpaces larger than what is
occupied by our folar fyftem ; and in which there feems
to be a perpetual uninterrupted day among numberlefs
worlds, which no human art ever can difcover.
Several ftars are mentioned by ancient aftronomers,
which are not now to be found ; and others are now vi¬
fible.to the bare eye which are not recorded in the ancient
catalogues. Hipparchus obferved a new ftar about 120
years before Chrift ; but he has not mentioned in what
part of the heaven it was feen, although it occafioned
his making a catalogue of the ftars ; which is the moft
ancient that we have.
The firft new ftar that we have any good account of,
was difcovered by Cornelius Gemma on the 8th of No¬
vember D. 1572, in the chair of Caffiopea. It fur-
N O M Y.
parted Sirius in brightnefs and magnitude ; and was feen
for 16 months fucceflively. At firft it appeared bigger
than Jupiter to fome eyes, by which it was feen at mid¬
day : afterwards it decayed gradually both in magnitude
and luftre, until March 1573, when it became invifible.
On the 13th of Auguft 1596, David Fabricius ob¬
ferved the Stella Mira, or wonderful ftar, in the neck
of the Whale ; which has been fince found to appear and
difappear periodically, feven times in fix years, conti¬
nuing in the greateft luftre for 15 days together ; and is
never quite extinguilhed.
In the year 1600, William Janfenius difcovered a
changeable ftar in the neck of the Swan ; which, in time,
became fo fmall as to be thought to difappear entirely,
till the years 1657, 1658, and 1659, when it recovered
its former luftre and magnitude ; but foon decaryed, and
is now of the fmalleft fize.
In the year 1604 Kepler and feveral of his friends faw
a new ftar near the heel of the right foot of Serpenta-
rius, fo bright and fparkling, that it exceeded any thing
they had ever feen before ; and took notice that it was
every moment changing into fome of the colours of the
rainbow, except when it was near the horizon, at which
time it was generally white. It furpaffed Jupiter in mag¬
nitude, which was near it all the month of October,’ but
eafily diftinguilhed from Jupiter, by the fteady light of
Jupiter. It difappe_ared between O&ober 1605 and
the February following, and has not been feen fince that
time.
In the year 1670, July x5, Hevelius difcovered a new
ftar, which in Odtober was fo decayed as to be fcarce
perceptible In April following it regained its luftre,
but wholly difappeared in Auguft. In March 1672 it
was feen again, but very fmall; and has not been vifible
fince.
In the year 1686 a new ftar was difcovered by Kirch,
which returns periodically in 404 days.
In the year 1672, Caffini faw a ftar in the neck of the
Bull, which he thought was not vifible in Tycho’s time,
nor when Bayer made his figures.
Many ftars, befides thofe above mentioned, have been
obferved to change their magnitudes : and as none of
them could ever be perceived to have tails, it is plain
they could not be comets ; efpecially as they had no pa¬
rallax, even when largeft and brighteft. It would feem,
that the periodical ftars have vaft clufters of dark fpots,
and very flow rotations on their axes ; by which means,
they muft difappear when the fide covered with fpots is
turned towards us. And as for thofe which break out
all of a fudden with fuch luftre, it is by no means im¬
probable that they are funs whofe fuel is almoft fpent,
and again fupplied by fome of their comets falling upon
them, and occafioning an uncommon blaze and fplendor
for fome time ; which indeed appears to be the greateft
ufe of the cometary part of any fyftem *.
Some
# M. Maupertuis, in his dijfertation on the figures of the celeftial bodies, (p. 6t,—63.J, is of opinion that
fame fars, by their prodigious quick rotations on their axes, may not only ajfurne the figures of oblate fpheroids,
but that, by the great centrifugal force arifing from fuch notations, they may become of the figures of mill-ft ones;
or
ASTRO
Some of the flars, particularly Ar&urus, have been
obferved to change their places above a minute of a degree
with refpedt to others. But whether this be owing to
any real motion in the ftars themfelves, mull require the
obfervations of many ages to determine. If our folar
fyftem changeth its place, with regard to abfolute fpace,
this muft in procefs of time occafion an apparent change
in the dillances of the ftars from each other : and in fuch
a cafe, the places of the neareft ftars to us being more af-
fefted than thofe which are very remote, their relative
pofitions muft feem to alter, though the. ftars themfelves
were really immoveable. On the other hand, if our own
fyftem be at reft, and any of the ftars in real motion,
this muft vary their pofitions ; and the more fo, the
nearer they are to us, or fwifter their motions are, or
the more proper the dire&ion of their motion is for our
perception.
The obliquity of the ecliptic to the equinoftial is found
at prefent to be above the third part of a degree lefs than
Ptolemy found it. And moft of the obfervers after him
found it to decreafe gradually down to Tycho’s time.
If it be objected, that we cannot depend on the ob¬
fervations of the ancients, becaufe of the incorrecft-
nefs of their inftruments ; we have to anfwer, that
both Tycho and Flamfteed are allowed to have been
very good obfervers ; and yet we find that Flamfteed
makes this obliquity zi minutes of a degree lefs than
Tycho did about 100 years before him : and as Pto¬
lemy was 1324 years before Tycho, fo the gradual de¬
creafe anfwers nearly to the difference of time between
thefe thrqe aftronomers. If we confider, that the earth
is not a perfeft fphere, but an oblate fpheriod, having
its axis (horter than its equatorial diameter ; and that the
fun and moon are conftantly ading obliquely upon the
greater quantity of matter about the equator, pulling it,
as it were, towards a nearer and nearer co-incidence
with the. ecliptic ; it will not appear improbable that thefe
adions ftiould gradually diminifli the angle between thofe
planes. Nor is it lefs probable that the mutual attrac¬
tions of all the planets fhould have a tendency to bring
their orbits to a coincidence : but this change is too fmall
to become fenfible in many ages.
Chap. XVIII. Of the Divifion of Time. A
perpetual Table of New Moons. The Times
of the Birth and Death of Christ. A
Table of remarkable JEras or Events.
The parts of time are Seconds, Minutes, Hours,
Days, Tears, Cycles, Ages, and Periods.
The original ftandard, or integral meafure of time,
N O M Y. 489
is a year; which is determined by the revolution of
fome celeftial body in its orbit, viz. the fun or moon.
The time meafured by the fun’s revolution in the
ecliptic, from any equinox or folftice to the fame again,
is called the Solar or Tropical Tear, which contains
365 days, 5 hours, 48 minutes, 57 feconds ; and is the
only proper or natural year, becaule it always keeps the
fame feafons to the fame months.
The quantity of time meafured by the fun’s revolu¬
tion, as from any fixed ftar to the fame ftar again, is
called the fydereal year-, which contains 365' dajs 6
hours 9 minutes 14-r feconds; and is 20 minutes 17J-
feconds longer than the true folar year.
The time meafured by twelve revolutions of the moon,
from the fun to the fun again, is called the lunar year;
it contains 354 days 8 hours 48 minutes 36 feconds;
and is therefore 10 days 21 hours o minutes 21 feconds
fhorter than the folar year. This is the foundation of
the epaft.
The civil year is that which is in common ufe among
the different nations of the world; of which, fome rec¬
kon by the lunar, but moft by the folar. The civil fo¬
lar year contains 36J days, for three years running,
which are called common years ; and then comes in what
is called the bijfextile or leap-year, which contains 366
days. This is alfo called the Julian year, on account of
Julius Csefar, who appointed the intercalary-day every
fourth year, thinking thereby to make the civil and folar
year keep pace together. And this day, being added to
the 23d of February, which in the Roman kalendar was
the fixth of the kalends of March, that fixth day was
twice reckoned, or the 23d and 24th were reckoned as
one day, and was called bis fextus dies; and thence
came the name biJJ'extile for that year. But in our com¬
mon almanacks this day is added at the end of February.
The civil lunar year is alfo common or intercalary.
The common year confifts of 12 lunations, which con¬
tain 354 days; at the end of which, the year begins a-
gain. The intercalary, or embolimic year is that where¬
in a month was added, to adjuft the lunar year to the folar.
This method was ufed by the Jews, who kept their ac¬
count by the lunar motions. But by intercalating no
more than a month of 30 days, which they called Ve-
Adar, every third year, they fell 3^. days ftiort of the
folar year in that time.
The Romans alfo ufed the lunar embolimic year at
firft, as it was fettled by Romulus their firft king, who
made it to confift only of ten months or lunations, which
fell 61 days (hort of the folar year, andfo their year be¬
came quite vague and unfixed; for which reafon, they
were forced to have a table publifhed by the high-prieft,
to inform them when the fpring and other feafons began.
or be reduced to fiat circular planes, fo thin as to be quite invifsble when their edges are turned towards us ; as
Saturn’s ring is in fuch pofitions. But when very excentric planets or comets go round any fiat far, in orbits
much inclined to its equator, the at t raft ion of the planets or comets in their perihelions mufi alter the inclination
of the axis of that far ; on which account it will appear snore or lefs large and luminous, as its broad fide is more
or lefs turned towards us. And thus he imagines we may account for the apparent changes of magnitude and lufire
in thofe fiars, and likewife for their appearing and difappearing.
Von. I. No. 21. 3 f 6 H
t
But
ASTRONOM Y.
49°
But Julius Cssfar, as already mentioned, taking this
-t-roublefome affair into confideration, reformed the ka-
lendar, by making the year to confift of 365 days 6 hours.
The year thus fettled, is what we ftill make ufe of in
Britain; but as it is fomewhat more than 1 x minutes
longer than the folar tropical year, the times of the &■
quinoxes go backward, and fall earlier by one day in a-
bout 130 years. In the time of the Nicene Council,
{A. D. 32?), which was 1444 years ago, the vernal
equinox fell on the 21ft of March; and if we divide
1444 by 130. it will quote it, which is the number of
days which the equinox has fallen back fince the Council
of Nice. This caufing great difturbances, by unfixing
the times of the celebration of Eafter, and confequently
of all the other moveable feafts, Pope Gregory Xlllth,
in the year 1582, ordered ten days to be at once ftruck
out of that year; and the next day after the 4th of Oc¬
tober was called the 15th. By this means the vernal e-
quinox was reftored to the 21ft of March; and it was
endeavoured, by the omiflion of three intercalary days
in 400 years, to make the civil or political year keep
pace with the folar for time to come. This new form
of the year is called the Gregorian account, or neiu
Jiyl;; which is received in all countries where the pope’s
authority is acknowledged, and ought to be in all places
where truth is regarded.
The principal divifion of the year is into months,
which are of two forts, namely, aftrononrical and civil.
The afironbmical month is the time in which the moon
runs through the zodiac, and is either periodical or fy-
nodical. The periodical month is the time fpent by the
moon in making one complete revolution from any point of
the zodiac to the fame again; which is27d 7h43m. The
fynodical month, called a lunation, is the time contained
between the moon’s parting with the fun at a conjun&ion,
and returning to him again, which is 29d I2h 44“.
The civil months are thofe which are framed for the ufes
of civil life; and are different as to their names, num¬
ber of days, and times of beginning, in feveral different
countries. The firft month of the Jewifh year fell ac¬
cording to the moon in our Auguft and September, old
ftyle; the fecond in September and October; and fo on.
The firft month of the Egyptian year began on the 29th
of our Auguft. The firft month of the Arabic and
Turkifh year began the 16th of July. The firft
month of the Grecian year fell according to the moon in
June and July, the fecond in July and Auguft, and fo
on, as in the following table.
A month is divided into four parts called •weeks, and
a week into feven parts called days; fo that in a Julian
year there are 13 fuch months, or 52 weeks, and one
day over. The Gentiles gave the names of the fun,
moon, and planets, to the days of the week. To the
firft, the name of the Sun; to the fecond, of the Moon;
to the third, of Mars; to the fourth, of Mercury ; to
the fifth, of Jupiter; to the fxxth, of Venus ; and to
the feventh, of Saturn.
The Jewifh year.
Days N'
Tifri
2 Marchefvan
3 Cafleu —
4 Tebeth —
5 Shebat -
6 1 Adar  
7 Nifan
Aug.—Sept.
Sept.—Oft.
• Oft. —Nov.
   Nov.—Dec.
  Dec.—Jan.
 Jan. —Feb.
Abib   Feb.—M;
Jiar  
Sivan -
Tamuz
Ab  
Elul -
- Mar.—Apr.
■ Apr.—May
- May—June
- June—July
- July—Aug.
Days in the year
In the embolimic year after Adar they added a!
month called Ve-Adar of 30 days.
The Egyptian year.
Thoth   Auguft 29
Paophi Septemb. 28
Athir Oftober 28
Chojac  Novemb. 27
Tybi Decemb. 27
Mechir January 26
Phamenoth  February 25
Parmuthi March 27
Pachon  April 26
Payni May 26
Epiphi — June 25
Mefori July 25 !
Epagomenae or days added 
Days in the year
Days
3°
3°
3°
30
30
3°
30
30
3°
3°
3°
I 30
5
365
ASTRONOMY
491:
The Arabic and Turkifli year. Days N'
The ancient Grecian year.
Days
Muharram -
Saphar  
Rabia I. -
Rabia II.
Jornada I. -
Jornada II. -
Rajab  
Shaiban —
Ramadam -
Shawal  
Dulhaadah -
Dolheggia -
-July 16
- Auguft 15
- Septemb: 13
- October 13
- Novemb. 11
- Decemb. 11
- January 9
- February 8
- March 9
- April 8
- May 7
- June 5
Hecatombseon —
Metagitnion —
Boedromion —
Pyanepfion  
Maimacterion —
Pofideon  
Gamelion  
Anthefterion —
Elaphebolion —
Munichion  
Thargelion  
Schirrophorion
- June -
- J^y -
- Aug.-
- S.pt.-
- oa. -
- Nov -
- Dec.-
- Jan. -
- Feb.-
- Mar.-
- Apr.-
- May-
-July
-Aug.
-Sept.
■oa.
-Nov.
-Dec.
-Jan.
-Feb.
Mar.
-Apr.
-May
-June
Days in the ye;
-354
Days in the year -
The Arabians add x 1 days at the end of every year, which keep the fame months to the fame
feafons.
A day is either natural or artificial. The natural
Jay contains 24 hours; the artificial the time from fun-
rife to fun-fet. The natural day is either ajlronomrcal
or civil. The aftronomical day begins at noon, becaufe
the increafe and decreafe of days terminated by the hori¬
zon are very unequal among themfelves; which inequa¬
lity is likewife augmented by the inconftancy of the ho¬
rizontal refractions, and therefore the aftronomer takes
the meridian for the limit of diurnal revolutions, reckon¬
ing noon, that is, the inflant when the fun’s centre is on
the meridian, for the beginning of the day. The Bri-
tifh, French, Dutch, Germans, Spaniards, Portuguefe;
and Egyptians, begin the civil day at midnight; the an¬
cient Greeks, Jews, Bohemians, Silefians, with the mo¬
dern Italians, and Chinefe. begin it at fun-fetting; and
the ancient Babylonians, Perlians, Syrians, with the mo¬
dern Greeks, at fun-rifing.
An hour is a certain determinate parr of the day, and
is either equal or unequal. An equal hour is the 24th
part of a mean natural day, as (h^wn by well-regulated
clocks and watches; but thefe hours are not quite equal
as meafured by the returns of the fun to the meridianr,
becaufe of the obliquity of the ecliptic and fun’s unequal
motion in it. Unequal hours are thofe by which the ar¬
tificial day is divided into twelve parts, and the night in¬
to as many.
An hour is divided into 6o equaI parts called minutes*
a minute into 60 equal parts called feconds, and thefe a-
gain into 60 equal parts called thirds. The Jews,
Chaldeans, and Arabians, divide die hour into 1080 e-
qual parts called fcruples- which number contains 18
times 60, lb that one minute contains -18 fcruplCs.
A cycle is a perpetual round, or circulation of the
fame parts of time of any fort. The cycle cf the fun
is a revolution of 28 years, in which time the days of
the months return again to the fame days of the week’;
the fun’s place to the fame figns and degrees of the e-
cliptic on the fame months and days, fo as not to differ
one degree in 100 years; and the leap-years begin the
fame courfe over again with refpeft to the days of the
week on which the days of the months fall. The cycle
ef the moon, commonly called the golden number, is a
revolution of 19 years; in which time, the conjumftions,
oppofitions, and other afpefts of the moon, are within an
hour and half of being the fame as they were on the fame
days of the months 19 years before. The iudittion is a
revolution of 15 years, ufed only by the Romans for in¬
dicating the times of certain payments made by the fub-
je&s to the republic.: It.was eftablilhed by Conftantine,
A. D. 312-
The year of our Saviour’s birth, according to the vul¬
gar sera, was the 9th year of the folar cycle, the firft
year of the lunar cycle, and the 312th year after his
birth was the firft year of the Roman indidtion. There¬
fore, to find the year of the folar cycler. add 9 to any
given year of Chrift,, and divide the.fum by 28, the
quotient is the number of cycles elapfed fince his birth,
and the remainder is the cycle for the given year: If
nothing.remains, the cycle is 28. To find the lunar cycle,
add 1 to the given year of Chrift, and divide the fum
by.iq; the quotient is the number of cycles elapfed in
the interval, and the remainder is the cycle for the given
year; If nothing remains, the cycle is 19.. Laftly, fub-
tradl 312 from the given year of Chrift, and divide the
remainder by 15; and what remains after this divifion
is the indidtion for the given year : If nothing remains, ,
the indidtion is j j.
Although the aboye deficiency in the lunar circle of an ;
hour and an half every 19 years be but fmall, yet in
time it becomes fo fenfible as to make a whole natural
day in 310 years. So that,- although this cycle be of
ufe, when the golden numbers are rightly placed againft
the days of the months in the kalendar, as in -our Com¬
mon Prayer Books, for finding the days of the mean
conjundHons or oppofitions of the fun- and moon, and
confequently the time of Eafter; it will only ferve for
310 years, old ftyle. For as the1 hew and full moons
anticipate a day in that time, the golden numbers ought
<592 A S T R O
to be placed one day earlier in the kalendar for the next
310 years to come. Thefe numbers were rightly placed
againft the days of new moon in the kalendar, by the
council of Nice, A. D. 325; but the anticipation, which
has' been neglected ever fince, is now grown almoft into
5 days: And therefore, all the golden numbers ought
now to be placed 5 days higher in the kalendar for the
old (lyle than they were at the time of the faid council;
or 6 days lower for the new flyle, becaufe at prefent it.
differs 11 days from the old.
In the above table the golden numbers under the
months (land againfl: the days of new moon in the left-
hand column, for the new ftyle; adapted chiefly to the
fecond year after leap-year, as being the neareft mean for
all the four; and will ferve till the year 1900- There¬
fore, to find the day of new moon in any month of a gi¬
ven year till that time, look for the golden number of
N O M Y.
that year under the defired month, and againft it you
have the day of new moon in the left-hand column.
Thus, fuppofe it were required to find the day of new
moon in September 1769; the golden number for that
year is 3, which I look for under September, and
right againft it in the left-hand column you will find 30,
which is the day of new moon in that month. N. B. If
all the golden numbers, except 17 and 6, were fet one
day lower in the table, it would ferve from the beginning
of the year 1900 till the end of the year 2199. The
table at the end of this chapter fhews the golden number
for 4000 years after the birth of Chrift, by looking for
the even hundreds of any given year at the left hand,
and for the reft to make up that year at the head of the
table ; and where the columns meet, you have the gold¬
en number (which is the fame both in old and new ftyle)
for the given year. Thus, fuppofe the golden number
was wanted for the year 1769; look for 1700 at the
left hand of the table, and for 69 at the top of it; then
guiding your eye downward from 69 to over-againft 1700,
you will find 3, which is the golden number for that
year.
But becaufe the lunar cycle of 19 years fometimes in¬
cludes five leap-years, and at other times only four, this
table will fometimes vary a day from the truth in leap-
years after February. And it is impoffible to have one
more <?orre<ft, unlefs we extend it to four times 19 or 76
years ; in which there are 19 leap-years without a re¬
mainder. But even then to have it of perpetual ufe, it
muft be adapted to the old ftyle; becaufe, in every cen-
turial year not divifible by 4, the regular courfe of leap-
years is interrupted in the new; as will be the cafe in
the year 1800.
The cycle of F.after, alfo called the Dionyfian period,
is a revolution of 532 years, found by multiplying the folar
cycle 28 by the lunar cycle 19. If the new moons did
not anticipate upon this cycle, Eafter-day would always
be the Sunday next after the firft full moon, which fol¬
lows the 21 ft of March. But, on account of the above
anticipation, to which no proper regard was had before
the late alteration of the ftyle, the ecclefiaftic Eafter has
feveral times been a week different from the true Eafter
within this laft century: which inconvenience is now re¬
medied by making the table, which ufed to find Eafter
for ever, in the Common Prayer Book, of no longer
ufe than the lunar difference from the new ftyle will ad¬
mit of.
The earlieft Eafter pofiible is the 22d of March, the
lateft the 25th of April. Within thefe limits are 37
days, and the number belonging to each of them is call¬
ed the number of direftion • becaufe thereby the time of
Eafter is found for any given year.
The firft feven letters of the alphabet are commonly
placed in the annual almanacks, to Ihew on what days of
the week the days of the months fall throughout tiie
year. And becaufe one of-thofe feven letters muft ne-
ceffarily ftand againft Sunday, it is printed in a capital
.form, and called the dominical letter: The other fix
being inferted in fmall characters, to denote the other
fix days of the week. Now, fince a common Julian
year contains 365 days, if this number be divided by 7
(the
A S T R C
(the number of days in a week) there will remain one
day. If there had been no remainder, it is plain the
year would conftantly begin on the fame day of the week:
but lince one remains, it is plain, that the year muft
begin and end on the fame day of the week ; and
therefore the next year will begin on the day follow¬
ing. Hence, when January begins on Sunday, A is the
dominical or Sunday letter for that year: Then, becaufe
the next year begins on Mond iy, the Sunday will fall
on the feventh day, to which is annexed the feventh let¬
ter G, which therefore will be the dominical letter for
all that year: and as the third year will begin on Tuef-
day, the Sunday will fall on the fixth day; therefore F
will be the Sunday letter for that year. Whence it is
evident, that the Sunday letters will go annually in a
retrograde order thus, G, F, E, D, C, B, A. And, in
the courfe of feven years, if they were all common ones,
the fame days of the week and dominical letters would
return to the fame days of the months. But becaufe there
are 366 days in a leap-year, if this number be divided
by 7, there will remain two days over and above the
52 weeks of which the year confifts. And therefore, if
the leap-year begins on Sunday, it will end on Monday;
and the next year will begin on Tuefday, the firft Sun¬
day whereof mult fall on the fixth of January, to which
is annexed the letter F, and not G, as in common years.
By this means, the leap-year returning every fourth
year, the order of the dominical letters is interrupted;
and the feries cannot retnrn to its firlt date till after four
times feven, or 28 years ; and then the fame days of
the months return in order to the fame days of the week
as before.
From the multiplication of the folar cycle of 28 years
into the lunar cycle of 19 years, and the Roman indic¬
tion of 15 years, arifes the great Julian period, confid¬
ing of 7980 years, which had its beginning 764 years be¬
fore Strauchius’s fuppofed year of the creation (for no
later could all the three cycles begin together) and it is
not yet compleated : And therefore it includes all other
cycles, periods, and aaras. There is but one year in
the whole period that has the fame numbers for the three
cycles of which it is made up: And therefore, if hifto-
rians had remarked in their writings the cycles of each
year, there had been no difpute about the time of any
a<5Hon recorded by them.
The Dionyfian or vulgar tera of Chrift’s birth was a-
bout the end of the year of the Julian period 4713 ; and
confequently the firft year of his age, according to that
N O M Y. 493
account, was the 4714th year of the faid period. There¬
fore, if to the current year of Chrift we add 4713, the
fum will be the year of the Julian period. So the year
1769 will be found to be the 648 2d year of that period.
Or, to find the year of the Julian period anfwering to
any given year before the firft year of Chrift, fubtraft the
number of that given year from 4714, and the remainder
will be the year of the Julian period. Thus, the year
585 before the firft year of Chrift (which was the 584th
before his birth) was the 4129th year of the faid period.
Laftly, to find the cycles of the fun, moon, and indic¬
tion for any given year of this period, divide the given
year by 28, 19, and 15; the three remainders will be
the cycles fought, and the quotients the numbers of cycles
run fince the beginning of the period. So in the above
4714th year of the Julian period, the cycle of the fun
was 10, the cycle of the moon 2, and the cycle of indic¬
tion 4; the folar cycle having run through 168 courfes,
the lunar 248, and the indidtion 314.
The vulgar sera of Chrift’s birth was never fettled till
the year 527, when Dionyfius Exiguus, a Roman abbot,
fixed it to the end of the 4713th year of the Julian
period, which was four years too late. For our Saviour
was born before the death of Herod, who fought to kill
him as foon as he heard of his birth. And, according to
the teftimony of Jofephus (5. xvii. ch. 8.) there was an
eclipfe of the moon in the time of Herod’s lall illnefs ;
which eclipfe appears by our aftronomical tables to
have been in the year of the Julian period 4710, March
13th, at 3 hours part midnight, at Jerufalem. Now,
as our Saviour muft have been born fome months before
Herod’s death, fince in the interval he was carried into
Egypt, the lateft time in which we can fix the true aera
of his birth as about the end of the 4709th year of the
Julian period.
As there are certain fixed points in the heavens from
which aftronomers begin their computations, fo there are
certain points of time from which hiftorians begin to
reckon ; and thefe points or roots of time are called a ras
or epochs. The moft remarkable aeras are, thofe of the
Creation, the Greek Olympiads, the building of Rome,
the sera of Nabonaflar, the death of Alexander, the
birth of Chrift:, the Arabian Hegira, and the Perfian Jef-
degird: All which, together with feveral others of lefs
note, have their beginnings to the following table fixed
to the years of the- Julian period, to the age of the
world at thofe times, and to the years before and after
the year of Chrift’s birth.
A Table of remarkable JEras and Events*
1. The creation of the world -
2. The deluge, or Noah’s flood - - - -
3. The AIT} rian monarchy founded by Nimrod - - -
4. The birth of Abraham - - - -
5. The deftru&ion of Sodom and Gomorrah - - - -
6. The beginning of the kingdom of Athens by Cecrops
7. Moles receives the ten commandments from God
8. The entrance of the Ifraelites into Canaan - - -
9. The deftruftion of Troy ...
Vol. L No. 21. 3 f
Julian Y.ofthe
Period. World.
706
2362
2J37
2714
2816
3157
3222
3262
3529
1656
1.831
2008
2110
2451
2516
2556
2823
Before
Chrift.
4007
2351
2176
1999
1897
1556
1491
1451
1184
10. The
494
S T R O N O M Y.
10. The beginning of king David’s reign - -
11. The foundation of Solomon’s temple
12. The Argonautic expedition - - -
13. Lycurgus forms his excellent laws - - -
14. Arbaces, the firfl: king of the Medes
1$. Mandaucus, the fecond - - - -
16. Sofarmus, the third - - -
17. The beginning of the Olympiads
18. Artica, the fourth king of the Medes
19. The Catonian epocha of the building of Rome
20. The sera of Nabonaflar - - - .
21. The deftrudion of Samaria by Salmanefer
22. The firft eclipfe of the moon on record
23. Cardicea, the fifth king of the Medes
24. Phraortes, the fixth - - - .
25. Cyaxares, the feventh - - -
26. The firfl: Babylonifh captivity by Nebuchadnezzar
27. The long war ended between the Medes and Lydians
28. The fecond Babylonifh captivity, and birth of Cyrus
29. The deftrudion of Solomon’s temple ...
30. Nebuchadnezzar (truck with madnefs
31. Daniel’s vifion of the four monarchies
32. Cyrus begins to reign in the Perfian empire
3 3. The battle of Marathon - - - -
34. Artaxerxes Longimanus begins to reign
3 j. The beginning of Daniel’s feventy weeks of years
36. The beginning of the Pelopennefian war
37. Alexander’s vidory at Arbela - - -
38. The death of Alexander . - - -
39. The captivity of 100000 Jews by king Ptolemy
40. The Coloflus of Rhodes thrown down by an earthquake
41. Antiochus defeated by Ptolemy Philopater
42. The famous Archimedes murdered at Syracufe
43. Jafon butchers the inhabitants of Jerufalem
44. Corinth plundered and burnt by conful Mummius
45. Julius Csefar invades Britain -
46. He correds the kalendar ... - -
47. Is killed in the Senate-houfe - . - -
48. Herod made king of Judea -
49. Anthony defeated at the Battle of Adium
50. Agrippa builds the Pantheon at Rome
51. The true aera of Chrift’s birth - - -
52. The death of Herod - ...
53. The Dionyfian, or vulgar sera of Chrift’s birth -
54. The true year of his crucifixion -
55. The deftrudion of Jerufalem - ... -
5.6. Adrian builds the long wall in Britain . . . -
5 7. Conftantius defeats the Pids in Britain - - -
58. The council of Nice ....
59. The death of Conftantine the great - - - - -
60. The Saxons invited into Britain - - - -
61. The Arabian Hegira - - - - - -
62. The death of Mohammed the pretended prophet ...
63. The Perfian Yefdegird - - - - -
64. The fun, moon, and all the planets in Libra, Sep. 14. as feen from the earth
65. The art of printing difcovered - - - -
66. The reformation begun by Martin Luther - - -
Julian
Period,
3650
3701
3776
3829
3838
3865
39i5
3938
3945
3961
3967
3992
3993
3996
4058
4080
4107
4111
4114
4125
4144
4158
4177
4223
4249
4256
4282
4383
4390
4393
4491
4496
4506
4543
4567
4659
4677
4671
4673
4683
4688
4709
4710
4713
4746
4783
4833
5019
5038
5050
5158
5335
5343
5344
5899
6153
6230
Y.ofthe
Word.
2944
2995
3070
3103
3132
3159
3209
3232
3239
3255
3261
3286
3287
3290
3352
3374
34°i
3405
3408
34W
3438
3452
347i
3517
3543
3350
3576
3677
3684
3687
3875
379°
3800
3837
3861
3953
3961
3965
3967
3977
3982
4003
4004
4007
4040
4077
4127
4313
4332
4344
4452
4629
4637
4638
5W3
5447
5524
Before
Chrift.
1063
1012
937
884
875
848
798
775
768
752
746
721
720
717
655
633
606
602
599
588
569
555
536
490
464
457
43i
330
323
320
222
217
207
170
146
54
46
42.
40
30
25
4
„ 3
After
Chrift.
o
33
70
120
306
325
337
445
622
630
631
1186
1440
1517
ASTRONOMY. 49S
In fixing the year of the creation to the 706th year was at the noon of the fourth day of the creation-week,
of the Julian period, which was the 4007th year before and that the moon was then 24 hours pad: her oppofition
the year of Chrift’s birth, we have followed Mr Bed- to the fun. —If Mofes had told us the fame things, we
ford in his fcripture chronology,; printed A. D. 1730, ftiould have had fufficient data for fixing the sera of the
and Mr Kennedy in a work of the fame kind, printed . creation: But, as he has been filent on thefe points, we
A. D. 1762.—Mr Bedford takes it only for granted that muftconfider the befl: accounts of chronologers as entire
the world was created at the time of the autumnal equi- ly hypothetical and uncertain,
nox : But Mr Kennedy affirms, that the faid equinox
Chap. XIX. A Defcription of the AJlro-
nomical Machinery ferving to explain and
illuflrate the foregoing part of this Treatife.
The Orrery, (Plate XLVII. fig. 4.) This machine
ffiews the motions of the fun, Mercury, Venus,, earth,
and moon ; and occafionally the fuperior planets, Mars,
Jupitec, and Saturn, may be put on; Jupiter’s four fa-
tellites are moved round him in their proper times by a
fmall winch; and Saturn has his five fatellites, and his
ring which keeps its parallelifm round the fun ; and by a
lamp put in the fun’s place, the ring fiiews all its various
phafes already deferibed.
In the centre. No. 1. reprefents the fun, fupported
by its axis, inclining almoft 8 degrees from the axis of
the ecliptic, and turning round in 25^ days on its axis
of which the north pole inclines toward the 8th degree
of Pifces in the great ecliptic, (No. 11.), whereon the
months and days are engraven over the figns and degrees
in which the fun appears, as feen from the earth, on
the different days of the year.
The neareft planet (No. 2.) to the fun is Mercury,
which goes round him in 87 days 23 hours, or 87!^ di¬
urnal rotations of the earth; but has no motion round
its axis in the machine, becaufe the time of its diurnal
motion in the heavens is not known to us.
The next planet in order is Venus, (No.,3.), which
performs her annual courfe in 224 days 17 hours, and
turns round her axis in 24 days 8 hours, or-in 24-f diur¬
nal rotations of the earth. Her axis inclines 75 degrees
fiom the. axis of the ecliptic, and her. north pole inclines
towards*
495 ASTRO
towards the 20th degree of Aquarius, according to the
obfervations of Bianchini. She fhews all the pheno¬
mena defcribed in Chap. I.
Next, without the orbit of Venus, is the Earth,
(No. 4.), which turns round its axis, to any fixed point
at a great diftance, in 23 hours 56 minutes 4 feconds,
of mean folar time; but from the fun to the fun again,
in 24 hours of the fame time. No. 6. is a fydereal
dial plate under the earth, and No. 7. a folar dial-plate
on the cover of the machine. The index of the former
ftiews fydereal, and of the latter, folar time; and hence
the former index gains one entire revolution on the latter
every year, as 365 foiar or natural days contain 366 fy¬
dereal days, or apparent revolutions of the ftars. In
the time that the earth makes 365^ diurnal rotations on
its axis, it goes once round the fun in the plane of the
ecliptic; and always keeps oppofite to a moving index
(No. 10.) which fhews the fun’s daily change of place,
and alfo the days of the months.
The earth is half covered with a black cap, for divi¬
ding the apparently enlightened half next the fun from
the other half, which, when turned away from him, is
in the dark. The edge of the cap reprefents the circle
bounding light and darknefs, and fhews at what time the
fun rifes and fets to all places throughout the year. The
earth’s axis inclines 23^ degrees from the axis of the ec¬
liptic, the north pole inclines toward the beginning of
Cancer, and keeps its parallelifm throughout its annual
courfe; fo that in fummer the northern parts of the earth
incline towards the fun, and in winter from him; by
which means, the different lengths of days and nights,
and the caufe of the various feafons, are demonllrated
to fight.
There is a broad horizon, to the upper fide of which
is fixed a meridian femicircle in the north and fouth
points, graduated on both fides from the horizon to 90°
in the zenith or vertical point. The edge of the horizon
is graduated from the eafl: and weft to the fouth and
north points, and within thefe divifions are the points of
the compafs. From the lower fide of this thin horizon-
plate ftand out four fmall wires, to which is fixed a twi¬
light-circle :8 degrees from the graduated fide of the
horizon all round This horizon may be put upon the
earth, (when the cap is taken away), and re&ified to the
latitude of any place; and then, by a fmall wire called
the folar ray, which may be put on fo as to proceed di-
redlly from the fun’s centre towards the earth’s, but to
come no farther than almoft to touch the horizon. The
beginning of twilight, time of fun-rifing, with his am¬
plitude, meridian altitude, time of fetting, amplitude
then, and end of twilight, are fhewn for every day of
the year, at that place to which the horizon is reftified.
The Moon (No. 5.) goes round the earth, from be¬
tween it and any fixed point at a great diftance, in 27
days 7 hours 43 minutes, or through all the figns and de¬
grees of her orbit, which is called her periodical revolu¬
tion ; but flie goes round from the fun to the fun again,
or from change to change, in 29 days 12 hours 45 mi¬
nutes, which is her fynodical revolution; and in that
time -fhe exhibits all the phafes already defcribed.
When the above mentioned horizon is re&ilied to the
N O M Y.
latitude of any given place, the times of the moon’s ri¬
ling and fetting, together with her amplitude, are fhewn
to that place as well as tire fun’s; and all the various
phenomena of the harveft-moon are made obvious to
fight^ .
The moon’s orbit (No. 9.) is inclined to the ecliptic,
(No. 11.), one half being above, and the other below
it. The nodes, or points at o and o, lie in the plane
of the ecliptic, as before defcribed, and fliift back¬
ward through all its fines and degrees in i8y years. The
degrees of the moon’s latitude to the higheft at NL
(north latitude) and loweft at SL, (fouth latitude), ate
engraven both ways from her nodes at o and o; and as
the moon rifes and falls in her orbit according to its in¬
clination, her latitude and diftance from her nodes are
fhewn for every day, having firft reftified her orbit fo as
to fet the nodes to their proper places in the ecliptic;
and then, as they come about at different, and almoft
oppofite times of the year, and then point towards the
fun, all the eclipfes may be fhewn for hundreds of years,
(without any new rectification), by turning the machinery
backward for time paft, or forward for time to come.
At 1 7 degrees diftance from each node, on both fides,
is engraved a fmall fun; and at 12 degrees diftance, a
fmall moon ; which fhew the limits of folar and lunar
eclipfes: and when, at any change, the moon falls be¬
tween either of thefe funs and the node, the fun will be
eclipfed on the day pointed to by the annual index,
(No. 10.); and as the moon has then north or fouth la¬
titude, one may eafily judge whether that eclipfe will be
vifible in the northern or fouthern hemifphere; efpecially
as the earth’s axis inclines toward the fun or from him
at that time. And when, at any full, the moon falls
betw-een either of the little moons and node, fhe will
be eclipfed, and the annual index fhews the day of that
eclipfe. There is a circle of 29-r equal parts (No. 8.)
on the cover of the machine, on which an index fhews
the days of the moon’s age.
There are two femicircles (Plate XLVIII. fig. 1.) fix¬
ed to an elliptical ring, which being put like a cap upon
the earth, and the forked part F upon the moon, fhews
the tides as the earth turns round within them, and they
are led round it by the moon. When the different
places come to the femicircle AaEbB, they have tides of
flood; and when they come to the femicircle CED, they
have tides of ebb; the index on the hour-circle (No. 7.
Plate XLVII.) fhewing the times of thefe phenomena.
There is a jointed wire, of which one end being put
into a hole in the upright ftem that holds the earth’s cap,
and the wire laid into a fmall forked piece which may be
occafionally put upon Venus or Mercury, fhews the.di-
re<ft and retrograde motions of thefe two planets, with
their ftadonary times and places, as feen from the .earth.
The whole machinery is turned by a winch or handle,
(No. 12.), and is fo eafily moved, that a clock might
turn it without any danger of flopping.
To give a plate of the wheel-work of this machine,
would anfwer no purpbfe, becaufe many of the wheels
lie fo behind others as to hide them from fight in any
view whatever.
The Cometarium, (Plate XLVIII. fig. 2.) This
curious
Plate XKVIL.
Pergusoists Orrery
JJ
.
««::
J .
' : '
YlateXLYHI
ASTRO
curious machine /hews the motion of a comet or excen-
tric body moving round the fun, defcribing equal areas
in equal times, and may be fo contrived as to fhew fuch
a motion for any degree of excentricity. It was invent¬
ed by the late Dr Defaguliers.
The dark elliptical groove round the letters abodefghiklm
is the orbit of the comet T.: this comet is carried round
in the groove according to the order of letters, by the
wire W fixed in the fun 5, and Hides on the wire as it
approaches nearer to, or recedes farther from the fun,
being'neareft of all in the perihelion a, and farthell in
the aphelion The areas, aSb, bSc, cSd, See. or con¬
tents of thefe feveral triangles, are all equal; and in e-
very turn of the winch N, the comet T is carried over
one of thefe areas; confequently, in as much time as it
moves from / to g, or from g to b, it moves from rn to
or from a to b •, and fo of the reft, being quickeft of
all at a, and floweft at g. Thus the comet’s velocity in
its orbit continually decreafes from the perihelion a to
the aphelion g • and increafes in the fame proportion from
gto a.
The elliptic orbit is divided into 12 equal parts'or
figns, with their refpeftive degrees, and fo is the circle
nopqrstu, which reprefents a great circle in the heavens,
and to which the comet’s motion is referred by a fmall
knob on the point of the wire JV. Whilft the comet
moves from f to £ in its orbit, it appears to move only
about five degrees in this circle, as is (hewn by the fmall
knob on the end of the wire W\ but in as Ihort time as
the comet moves from m to a, or from a to b, and it
appears to deferibe the large fpace tn or ns in the hea¬
vens, either of which-fpaces contains 120 degrees, or
four figns. Were the excentricity of its orbit greater,
the greater ftill would be the difference of its motion,
and vice verfa.
ABCDEFGHIKLMA is a circular orbit for ftiewing
the equable motion of a body round the fun 5, defcri¬
bing equal areas ASB, BSC, See. in equal times with
thofe of the body T in its elliptical orbit above men¬
tioned ; but with this difference, that the circular mo¬
tion deferibes the equal arcs AB, BC, Sec. in the fame
equal times that the elliptical motion deferibes the une¬
qual arcs, ab, be, Sec.
Now, fuppofe the two bodies T and 1 to ftart from the
points a and A at the fame moment of time, and, each
having gone round its refpedfive orbit, to arrive at thefe
points again at the fame inftant, the body T will be for¬
warder in its orbit than the body 1 all the way from a
to g, and from A to G; but 1 will be forwarder than T
through all the other half of the orbit; and the differ¬
ence is equal to the equation of the body T in its orbit.
At the points and gG, that is, in the perihelion and
aphelion, they will be equal; and then the equation va-
nifhes. This {hews why the equation of a body moving in
an elliptic orbit, is added to the mean or fuppofed circular
motion from the perihelion to the aphelion, and fubtratted
from the aphelion to the -perihelion, in bodies moving
round the fun, or from the perigee to the apogee, and
from the apogee to the perigee in the moon’s motion
round the earth.
Vol. I. No. 2-1. 3
N O M Y. ^7
This motion is performed in the following manner by
the machine, (Plate XLVIII. fig. 3.). ABC is a wood¬
en bar, (in the box containing the wheel-work), above
which are the wheels D and E, and below it the elliptic
plates FF and GG; each plate being fixed on an axis in
one of its focufes, at E and K; and the wheel E is fix¬
ed on the fame axis with the plate FF. Thefe plates
have grooves round their edges precifely of equal diame¬
ters to one another, and in thefe grooves is the cat-gut
1^:r*ng EE’ EE cr°ffing between the plates at />. On //,
the axis of the handle or winch Win fig. 2. is an end-
lefs ferew in fig. 3. working in the wheels D and E,
whofe numbers of teeth being equal, and fhould be equal
to the number of lines aS, bS, cS, Sec. in fig. 2. they
turn round their axes in equal times to one another, and
to the motion of the elliptic plates. For, the wheels
Z) and E having equal numbers of teeth, the plate FF be¬
ing fixed on the fame axis with the wheel E, and the
plate FF turning the equally big plate GG by a cat-gut
firing round them both, they muft all go round their axes
in as many turns of the handle Was either of the wheels
has teeth.
It is eafy to fee, that the end h of the elliptical plate
FF being farther from its axis E than the oppofite end l
is, muft deferibe a circle fo much the larger in propor¬
tion, and therefore move through fo much more fpace in
the fame time; and for that reafon the end h moves fo
much fafter than the end 1, although it goes no fooner
round the centre E. But then the quick-moving end h
of the plate FF leads about the ftiort end b/C of the plate
GG with the fame velocity ; -and the How-moving end /
of the plate FF coming half round as to B, muft then
lead the long end b of the plate GG as flowly about: fo
that the elliptical plate FF and its axis E move uniformly
and equally quick in every part of its revolution; but
the elliptical plate GG, together with its axis K, muft
move very unequally in different parts of its revolution;
the difference being always inverfely as the diftance of
any point of the circumference of GG from its axis at
K\ or in other words, to inftance in two points, if the
diftance Kk be four, five, or fix times as great as the di¬
ftance. Kb, the point h will move in that pofition four,
five, or fix times as faft as the point k does, when the
plate GG has gone half round ; and fo on for any other
excentricity or difference of the diftances Kk and Kb.
The tooth / on the plate FF falls in between the two
teeth at Fon the plate GG, by which means the revolu¬
tion of the latter is fo adjufted to that of the former,
that they can never vary from one another.
On the top of the axis of the equally-moving wheel
D in fig. 3. is the fun S in fig. 2.; which fun, by the
wire fixed to it, carries the ball 1 round the circle
ABCD, Sec. with an equable motion, according to the
order of the letters : and on the top of the axis A' of the
unequally-moving ellipfis GG, in fig. 3. is the fun 5 in
fig. 2. carrying the ball T unequably round in the ellip¬
tical groove abed, Sec. W. B. This elliptical groove
muft be precifely equal and fimilar to the verge of the
plate GG, which is alfo equal to that of FF.
In this manner machines may be made to {hew the
f 6 K true
498 ASTRO
true motion of the moon about the earth, or of any pla¬
net about the fun, by making the elliptical plates of the
fame excentricities, in proportion to the radius, as the
orbits of the planets are, whofe motions they reprefent;
and fo their different equations in different parts of their
orbits may be made plain to fight, and clearer ideas of
thefe motions and equations acquired in half an hour,
than could be gained from reading half a day about fuch
motions and equations.
The Improved Celestial Globe, (Plate XLIV.
fig. 2.). On the north pole of the axis, above the hour-
circle, is fixed an arch MKH of 2 34 degrees; and at
the end H is fixed an upright pin HG, which Hands di-
re&ly over the north pole of the ecliptic, and perpendi-
etdar to that part of the furface of the globe. On this
pin are two moveable collets at D and H, to which are
fixed the quadrantile wires N and 0, having two little
balls on their ends for the fun and moon, as in the figure.
The collet D is fixed to the circular plate Ft whereon
the 294 days of the moon’s age are engraven, beginning
jiifl under the fun’s wire vV; and as this wire is moved
round the globe, the plate F turns round wi.h it. Thefe
wires are eafily turned, if the fcrew G be flackened ; and
when they are fet to their proper places, the fcrew ferves
to fix them there fo as in turning the ball of the globe,
the wires wi^h the fun and moon go round with it; and
thefe two little balls rife and fet at the fame times, and
on the fame points of the horizon, for the day to which
they are reftified, as the fun and moon do in the heavens,
Becaufe the moon keeps not her courfe in the ecliptic,
(as the fun appears to do), but has a declination of jy
degrees on each fide from it in every lunation, her ball may
be fcrewed as many degrees to either fide of the ecliptic as
her latitude or declination from the ecliptic amounts to at
any given time; and for this purpofe S, Plate LJ. fig. 2.
(by miftake omitted to be ivferted in the proper pL te^ is a
fmall piece of palteboard, of which the curved edge at S is
to be fet upon the globe at right angles to the ecliptic,
and the dark line over S to (land upright upon it. From
this line, on the convex edge, are drawn the degrees
of the moon’s latitude on both fides of the ecliptic; and
when this piece is fet upright on the globe, its graduated
edge reaches to the moon on the wire 0, by which means
flie is eafily adjufted to her latitude found by an ephemeris.
The horizon is fupported by two femicircular arches,
feecaufe pillars would Hop the progrefs of the balls when
they go below the horizon in an oblique fphere.
To reftify thin globe. Elevate the pok to the latitude
of the placethen bring the fun’s place in the ecliptic for
the given day to the brafen meridian, and fet the hour-
index to XII at noon, that is to the upper XII on the
hour-circle; keeping the globe in that fituation^ flacken
the fcrew G, and fet the fun diredly over his place on
the meridian; which done, fet the moon’s wire under
the number that exprefles her age for that day on the
plate F, and Hie will then Hand over her place in the
ecliptic, and fliew what conHellation Hie is in. Lafily,
fefi'en the fcrew' G, and laying the curved edge of the
paHeboard S over the ecliptic below, the moon, adjuH
the moon to her latitude over the graduated edge of the
jaiteboard; and the globe will he refitified.
N O M Y.
Having thus redtified the globe, turn it round, and ob-
ferve on what points of the horizon the fun and moon
balls rife and fet, for thefe agree with the points of the
compafs on which the fun and moon rife and fet in the
heavens on the given day; and the hour-index fiiew's the
times of their riling and fetting; and likewife the time of
the moon’s palling over the meridian.
This fimple apparatus Ihews all the varieties that can
happen in the riling and fetting of the fun and moon j
and makes the fore-mentioned phenomena of the harvefi-
moon plain to the eye. It is alfo very ufeful in reading
ledtures on the globes, becaufe a large company can fee
this fun and moon go round, rifing above and fetting be¬
low the horizon at different times, according to the fea-
fons of the year; and making their appulfes to different
fixed Hars. But in the ufual way, where there is only
the places of the fun and moon in the ecliptic to keep the
eye upon, they are eafily lofl fight of, unjefs they be
covered with patches.
The Planetary Globe, (Plate XLIX. fig. 1.) In
this machine, a terrefirial globe is fixed on its axis
Handing upright on the pedellal C D E, on which is an
hour-circle, having its index fixed on the axis, which
turns fomewhat tightly in the pedeHal, fo that the globe
may not be liable to Hrake; to prevent which, the pede¬
Hal is about two inches thick, and the axis goes quite
through it, bearing on a fhoulder. The globe is hung-
in a graduated brazen meridian, much in the ufual way;
and the thin plate Nx NE, F is a moveable horizon gra¬
duated round the outer edge, for fhewing the bearings
and amplitudes of the fun, moon, and planets. The
brafen meridian is grooved round the outer edge; and in
this groove is a flender femi-circle of brafs, the ends of
which are fixed to the the horizon in its north and fouth
points: this femi-circle Hides in the groove as the hori¬
zon is moved in re&ifying it for different latitudes. To
the middle of this femi-cirele is fixed a pin, which always
keeps in the zenith of the horizon, and on this pin the
quadrant of altitude q turns ; the lower end of which, in
all pofitions, touches the horizon as it is moved round
the fame. This quadrant is divided into 90 degrees
from the horizon to the zenithal pin on which it is turned,,
at 90. The great flat circle or plate is the ecliptic,
on the outer edge of which the figns and degrees are laid
down; and every fifth degree is drawn through the reH
of the furface of this plate towards its center. On this
plate are feven grooves, to which feven little balls are
arljufled by Hiding wires, fo that they are eafily moved
in the grooves, without danger of Harting them. The
ball next the terrefirial globe is the moon, the next
without it is Mercury, the next Venus, the ne^t the
fun, then Mars,, then Jupiter, and lafily Saturn. This
plate, or ecliptic, is fupported by four ftrong wires, ha¬
ving their lower ends fixed into the pedeftal, at C, D,
E, the fourth being hid by the globe. The ecliptic is
inclined 234 degrees to the pedeftal, and is therefore
properly inclined to the axis of the globe which Hands
upright on the pedeftal.
To reftify this machine. Set the fun, and all the pla¬
netary balls, to their geocentric places in the ecliptic for any
given, time, by an ephemeris; then, fet the north point of
thfc
i-4' :-v‘
-tla.te XUX.
ASTRO
the horizon to the Ltiiude of your place on the brafen
meridian, and the quadrant of altitude to the fouth point
of the horizon; which done, turn the globe with its fur¬
niture till the quadrant of altitude comes right againll:
the fun, viz. to his place in the ecliptic; and keeping it
there, fet the hour-index to the XII next the letter C;
and the machine will be redified, not only, for the fol¬
lowing problems, but for feveral others which, the artift
may eafily find out.
Problem I. Ts find the amplitudes, meridian alti¬
tudes, and times of rifing, culminating, and fet ting,
•f the fun, moon, and planets.
Turn the globe round eaftward, or according to the or¬
der of figns ; and as the eaftern edge of the horizon comes
right again!! the fun, moon, or any planet, the hour-
index will (hew the time of its rifing; and the inner edge
of the ecliptic will cut its rifing amplitude in the horizon.
T urn on, and as the quadrant of altitude comes right a-
gainlt the fun, moon or planets, the ecliptic cuts their
meridian altitudes in the quadrant, and the hour-index
fliews the times of their coming to the meridian. Con¬
tinue turning, and as the weftern edge pf the horizon
comes right again!! tjje fun, moon, or planets, their fet-
ting amplitudes are cut in the horizon by the ecliptic;
and the times of their fetting are fhewn by the index on
the hour-circle.
Prob. II. To find the altitude and azimuth of the
fun, moon, and planets, at any time of their being
above the horizon.
Turn the globe till the index comes to the given time
in the hour-circle, then keep the globe fleady, and mo¬
ving the quadrant of altitude to each planet refpe<5tivelyr
the edge of the ecliptic will cut the planet’s mean alti¬
tude on the quadrant, and the quadrant will cut the
planet’s azimuth, or point of bearing on the horizon.
Prob. III. The fun's altitude being given at any time
either before or after noon, to find the hour of the
day, and variation of the compafs, in any kno’wn la~
titude.
With one hand hold the edge of the quadrant right a-
gainfl the fun; and, with the other hand, turn the globe
weftward, if it be in the forenoon, or eailward if it be
in the afternoon, until the fun’s place at the inner edge
of the ecliptic cuts the quadrant in the fun’s obferved al¬
titude ; and then the hour-index will point out the time
of the day, and the quadrant will cut the true azimuth,
or bearing of the fun for that time: The difference be¬
tween which, and the bearing fhewn by the azimuth
compafs, fhews the variation of the compafs in that place
of the earth.
TheTrAjECTORiuM LoNARB, Plate XLIX. fig. 2. .
This machine is for delineating the paths of the earth
and moon, ftiewing what fort of curves they make in the
etherial regions. S is the fun, and E the earth, whofe
centres are 81 inches diftant from each other; every
mckanfwering to a million of miles. M is the moon,
N O M 499
whofe centre is parts of an inch from the earth’s
in this machine, this being in jult proportion to the
moon’s dillance from the earth. A A is a bar of wood,
to be moved by hand round the axis g winch is fixed in
the wheel T. The circumference of this wheel is to the
circumference of the fmall wheel L (below the other end
of the bar) as 365^ days is to 29^, or as a year is to a
lunation. The wheels are grooved round their edges, and
in the grooves is the cat-gut firing GG crofling between
the wheels at X. On the axis of the wheel L is the in-
dex F, in which is fixed the moon’s axis JYI for carrying
her round the earth E (fixed on the axis of the wheel
L) in the time that the index goes round a circle of 294-
equal parts, which are the days pf the moon’s age.
1 he w heel T has the months and days of the year all
round its limb ; and in the bar A A is fixed the index I,
which points out the days of the months anfwering to
the days of the moon’s age, (hewn by the index F, in the
circle of 29^ equal parts at the other end of the bar.
On the axis of the wheel L is put the piece Z), below
the cock C, in which this axis turns round ; and in D
are put the pencils e and m, dire&ly under the earth E
and moon M; fo that in is carried round e, as IVl is
round E.
Lay the machine on an even floor, prefling gently on
the wheel T, to caufe its fpiked feet (of which two ap¬
pear at P and P, the third being fuppofed to be hid
from fight by the wheel) enter a little into the floor to
fedure the wheel from turning. Then lay a paper about
four feet long under the pencils e and in, crofs-wife to
the bar; which done, move the bar flowly round the axis
g of the wheel T• and as the earth E goes round the fun
S, the moon Al will go round the earth w'ith a duly
proportioned velocity; and the fridtion-wheel IV running
on the floor, will keep the bar from bearing too heavily
on the pencils e and m, which will delineate the paths
of the earth and moon.. As the index /points out the days-
of the months, the index E fliew's the moon’s age on thefe
days, in the circle of 294 equal parts.. And as this laft:
index points to the different days in its circle, the like
numeral figures may be fet to thofe parts of the curves
of the earth’s, path and moon’s, where the pencils e and
m are at thofe times refpe&ively, to fliew the places of
the earth and moon. If the pencil e be. puflied a very
little off, as if from the pencil in, to about ^ part of
their difiance, and the,pencil m puflied as much towards
e, to bring them to the fame difiances again, though not
to the fame points of Ipace ; then; as m goes round e,
e will go as it were round the centre of gravity between
the earth 1? and moon in ; but this motion will not fen-
fibly alter the figure of the earth’s path or the moon’s.
If a pin, as p, be put through the pencil w,. with its
head towards that of the pin q in the pencil e, its head
will always keep thereto as m goes round e, or as the
Tame fide of the moon is ftill obverted to the earth. But
the pin p, which may be confidered as an equatorial dia¬
meter of the moon, will turn quite round the point m,
making all poflible angles with the line of its progrefs, o’
line of the moon’s path. This is an ocular proof of the
moon’s.turning round her axis.
The
500 ASTRO
The Tmr-Di al, PlateL. fig. i. The outfide parts
of this machine confift of, i. An eight-fxded box, on the
top of whichat the corners is (hewn the phafes of the moon
at the octants, quarters, and full. Within thefe is a circle
of 2i)i equal parts, which are the days of the moon’s age
accounted from the fun at new moon, round to the fun
again. Within this circle is one of 24 hours divided
into their refpeftive halves and quarters. 2. A moving
elliptical plate, painted blue, to reprefent the rifing of
the tides under and oppofite to the moon ; and has the
words, high 'water, tide falling, low water, tide ri¬
fing, marked upon it. To one end of this plate is fixed
the moon M by the wire W, and goes along with it.
3. Above this elliptical plate is a round one, with the
points of the compafs upon it, and alfo the names of a-
bove 200 places in the large machine (but only 32 in the
figure, to avoid confufion) fet over thofe points in which
the moon bears when Ihe raifes the tides to the greateft *
heights at thefe places twice in every lunar day: And
to the north and fouth points of this plate are fixed two
indexes I and K, which (hew the times of high water,
in the hour circle, at all thefe places. 4. Below the
elliptical plate are four fmall plates, two of which pro-
jedt out from below its ends at new and full moon ; and
fo, by lengthening the ellipfe, fliew the fpring-tides,
which are then railed to the greateft heights by the uni¬
ted attradlions of the fun and moon. The other two of
tliefe fmall plates appear at low water when the moon is
in her quadratures, or at the fides of the elliptic plate,
to Ihew the neap-tides; the fun and moon then adling
crofs-wife to each other. When any two of thefe fmall
plates appear, the other two are hid; and when the
moon is in her o&ants, they all difappear, their being
neither fpring nor neap-tides at thofe times. Within
the box are a few wheels for performing thefe motions
by the handle or winch H.
Turn the handle until the moon M comes to any gi¬
ven day of her age in the circle of 294- equal parts, and
the moon’s wire IV will cut the time of her corning to
the meridian on that day, in the hour circle; the XII
under the fun being mid-day, and the oppofite XII mid¬
night : Then looking for the name of any given place
on the round plate (which makes 29-4- rotations whilft
the moon M makes only one revolution from the fun to
AST
ASTROP-WELLS, in Northamptonfhire, were re¬
commended by the phyficians Willis and Clever, for
the cure of the fcurvy, afthma, fyc.
ASTROSCOPE, an inftrument compofed of two canes,
having the conftellations delineated on their furfaces,
whereby the ftars may be eafily known.
ASTRUM, with chemifts, fignifies that virtue which
accrues to things from their preparation; and among
ancient phyficians, certain medicines in the figure of
round cakes impreffed with afterilks.
ASTUR, in ornithology, a fynonime of a fpecies of
falco. See Falco.
ASTURIA, a maritime province of Spain, lying along
N O M Y.
the fun again) turn the handle till that place comes to
the word high water under the moon, and~the index
which falls among the forenoon hours will fhew the time
of high water at that place in the forenoon of the given
day : then turn the plate half round, till the fame place
comes to the oppofite high- water mark, and the index
will (hew the time of high water in the afternoon at that
place. And thus, as all the different places come fuc-
ceffively under and oppofite to the. moon, the indexes
Ihew the times of high water at them in both parts of
the day: And, when the fame places come to the low-
water marks, the indexes fhew the times of low water.
For about three days before and after the times of new
and full moon, the two fmall plates come out a little
way from below the high-water marks on the elliptical
plate, to Ihew that the tides rife fiill higher about thefe
times : And abc ut the quarters, the other two plates
come out a ’.ittle from under the low-water marks to¬
wards the lun, and on the oppofite fide, Ihewing that
the tides of flood rife not then fo high, nor do the tides
of ebb fall fo low, as at other times.
By pulling the handle a little way outward, it is dif-
engaged from the wheel-work, and then the upper plate
may be turned round quickly by hand, fo as the moon
may be brought to any given day of her age in about a
quarter of a. minute; and by puffing in the handle, it
takes hold of the wheel-work again.
On AB, (fig. 2 .) the axis of the handle H, is an endlels
fcrew C, which turns -the wheel FED of 24 teeth round
in 24 revolutions of the handle: This wheel turns an¬
other ONG of 48 teeth, and on its axis is the pinion
P§>_ of four leaves, which turns the wheel LKI of
59 teeth round in 29-4- turnings or rotations of the
wheel FED, or in 708 revolutions of the handle, which
is the number of hours in a fynodical revolution of the
moon. The round plate, with the names of places up¬
on it, is fixed on the axis of the wheel FED; and the
elliptical or tide-plate with the moon fixed to it, is upon
the axis of the wheel LKI-, confequently, the former
makes 29-4 revolutions in the time that the latter makes
one. The whole wheel FED, with the endlefs fcrew
C, and dotted part of the axis of the handle AB, toge¬
ther with the dotted part of the wheel ONG, lie hid be¬
low the large wheel LKI.
A S Y
the bay of Bifcay, with Gallicia on the weft, and Bif-.
cay on the eaft. It gives the title of prince to the
eldeft fon of the king of Spain.
ASTYNOMI, in Grecian antiquity, magiftrates in A-
thens, correfponding to the sediles of the Romans;
they were ten in number. See AUdile.
AS YLUM, a fanftuary, or place of refuge, where cri¬
minals Ihelter themfelves from the hands of juftice.
The afyla of altars and temples were very ancient;
and likewife thofe of tombs, ftatues, and other monu¬
ments of confiderable perfonages: Thus, the temple
of Diana at Ephefus was a refuge for debtors, the
tomb of Thefeus for Haves. The Jews had their
A T H (501
afyla, the mofl: remarkable of which were, the fix ci¬
ties of refuge, the temple, and the altar of burnt-of¬
ferings.
ASYMMETRY, the want of proportion between the
parts of any thing, being the contrary of fymmetry.
See Symmetry.
ASYMPTOTE, in geometry, a line which continually
approaches nearer to another ; but, though continued in¬
finitely, will never meet with it.: Of thefe there are ma¬
ny kinds. In ftricknefs, however, the term afymptotes
is appropriated to right lines, which approach nearer
and nearer to fome curves of which they are faid to be
afymptotes-, but if they and their curve are indefinite¬
ly continued, they will never meet.
ASYMPTOTIC fpace, the fame with hyperbolic fpace.
See Hyperbolic.
ASYNDETON, in grammar, a figure which omits the
conjunctions in a fentence; as in vent, v'tdi, vici, et
is left out.
ATARAXY, a term ufed by the ftoics and fceptics, to
denote that calmnefs of mind which fecures us from
all emotions arifing from vanity and felf-conceit.
ATAXY, in a general fenfe, the want of order : With
phyficians, it fignifies irregularity of crifes and pa¬
re xyfms of fevers.
ATCHE, in commerce, a fmall filver coin ufed in Turky,
and worth only one third of the Engliih penny.
ATCHIEVEMENT, in heraldry, denotes the arms of
a perfon, or family, together with all the exterior or¬
naments of the ftiield; as helmet, mantle, creft, fcrolls,
and motto, together with fuch quarterings as may
have been acquired by alliances, all marihalled in or¬
der.
A TEMPO GIUSTO, in mufic, fignifies to fing and
or play in an equal, true, and jufl: time. See Time.
ATHAMADULET, the prime minifter of the Perfian
empire, as the grand vizier is of the Turkiih empire.
He is great chancellor of the kingdom, prefident of the
council, fuperintendant of the finances, and is charged
with all foreign affairs.
ATHAMANTA, in botany, a genus of the pentandria
digynia clafs. The fruit is oblong and ftreaked. The
fpecies are 10, only one of which, viz. the libanotis
or mountain ftone-parfley is a native of Britain. The
root of the athamanta meum or fpignel, a native of I-
taly, is an ufeful aromatic and carminative, though
little regarded in the prefent praftice.
ATHANASIA, in botany, a genus of the* fyngenefia
polygamia sequalis clafs. There are ten fpecies of
this genus, moft of them natives of Africa.
ATHANASIAN creed, that fuppofed to be compofed
by Athanafius. See Creed.
ATHANATI, in Perfian antiquity, a body of cavalry,
confifling of ten thoufand men, always complete.
They were called athanati, becaufe, when one of
them happened, to die, another was immediately ap¬
pointed to fucceed him.
ATHANOR, in chemiffry, a kind of fixed and large
digelling furnace, made with a tower, fo contrived as
to keep a conftant moderate heat for a confiderable
time, which may be increafed or diminifhed at plea-
V.ol, I. Numb. 21. 3
) A T H
fure by fhutting the regifters. See Chemistry, Of
furnaces.
ATHEIST, a perfon who does not believe the exiftence
of a Deity. Many people, both ancient and modern,
have pretended to atheifm, or have been reckoned a-
theifls by the world ; but it is juftly queftioned whe¬
ther any man ferioufly adopted fuch a principle. Thefe
pretenfions, therefore, muff be founded on pride or
affe&ation.
ATHELING, Adeling, Edling, Ethling, or
Etheling, among our Saxon anceftors, was a title
of honour properly belonging to the heir apparent, or
prefumptive, to the crown. This honourable appel¬
lation was firft conferred by king Edward the Confet
for on Edgar, to whom he was great uncle, when,
being without any iffue of his own, Ee intended to
make him his heir.
ATHENA, a plafter made of aloes, myrrh, and gum
ammoniac, and recommended by fome ancient phyfi-
cians in wounds of the head.
ATHENiEA, in Grecian antiquity. See Panathe-
NJEA.
ATHENiEUM, in antiquity, a public place wherein
the profeflbrs of the liberal arts held their affemblies,
the rhetoricians declaimed, and the poets rehearfed
their performances.
Thefe places, of which there were a great number
at Athens, were built in the manner of amphitheatres,
encompafled with feats, called.cunei. The three moil
celebrated Athenaea were thofe at Athens, at Rome,
and at Lyons, the fecond of which was buih by the
emperor Adrian.
ATHENREE, a town of Ireland, in the county of Gal¬
way, and province of Connaught, fituated about ten
miles eaftward of the city of Galway, in 8° 5c/ W.
long, and 530 14' N. lat.
ATHENS, anciently the .capital of Attica, fo famous
for its learned men, orators, and captains, now call¬
ed Setines. It Hands upon a plain watered by the
rivers Uliflus and Eridanus, about 40 miles call o'f
the ifthmus of Corinth: At prefent it is faid to
contain 10,000 inhabitants, three parts of which
are Chriltians. The town does not lie round the cafde
as anciently, but on the north-weft fide of it. Here
a Greek metropolitan refides. Among the many re¬
mains of antiquity, is the temple of Jupiter Olympius,
and temple of Minerva, called Parthenion, which laft
is ftill entire, and converted into a Turkiih mofque,
which, as later travellers aftiire us, is the fineft tem¬
ple in the world. This city, as all the reft of'Greece,
is fubjedt to .the Turks. E. long. 240 15' N. lat.
38° s'
ATHERINA, in ichthyology, a.genus of fillies of the
order of abdominales. The charadfers of this ge¬
nus are thefe: The upper jaw is plain ; the rays of
the branchioftege membrane are fix; and the fide-belt
or line Ihines like filver. The fpecies are two, viz.
1. The hepfetus, with about 12 rays in the fin next
the anus. It is found in the Mediterranean. 2. The
menidea, with 24 rays in the fin next the anus. This
is a very fmall pellucid filh, with many black points in¬
i' 6 L terfperfed'j
ATM ( 502 ) A T R
terfperfed; it has many teeth in the lips, but none in
the tongue or jaws. It is found in the frefti waters
or Carolina, and fpawns in April.
ATHEROMA, in medicine, a tumour without pain or
difcolouring of the {kin, containing, in a membrana¬
ceous bag, matter like pus, intermixed with hard and
ftony corpufcles, &C.
ATHERTON, a town of Warwicklhire, fituated about
ten miles north of Coventry, in i° 3c/ W. long, and
520 40' N. lat,
ATHLET/E, in antiquity, men of remarkable (bength
and agility, difciplined to perform in the public games.
This was a general term, under which were compre¬
hended wreftlers, boxers, runners, leapers, throwers
of the difc, and thofe who pradtifed in other exercifes
exhibited in the Olympic, Pythian, and other folemn
fports, wherein there were prizes allotted for the con¬
querors.
ATHLONE, aftrong town in the county of Weflmeath,
in the province of Connaught in Ireland, fituated on
the river Shannon, about 60 miles weft of Dublin, in
8° 5' W. long, and 53° 20' N. lat.
ATHOL, a diftridt of Perthfhire in Scotland, from
whence the ancient and noble family of Murray takes
the title of duke.
ATHOS, a celebrated mountain, fituated in the province
of Macedonia, on a peninfula, which ftretches into the
iEgean fea, near the gulf of Contefla, being an entire
chain of mountains extended near feven miles in length,
and three in breadth. It is now called Monte Santo,
from the 22 monafteries, befides cells and caves, upon
it, containing near 6000 monks and hermits; no wo¬
man is allowed to come within fight of their convents.
It is fituated 70 miles eaft of Salonichi, or Theflalo-
nica, and pays confiderable tribute to the Turks, it
being under the protedfion of the boftangi bafcha ; on
this chain formerly flood five cities. N. Lat. 40° 10'
E. long. 26° 20'.
ATHY, a town of Ireland, in the county of Kildare and
province of Leinfter, fituated on the river Barrow,
about 10 miles fouth of Kildare, in 70 5' W. long,
and 530 N. lat.
ATIGNY, a fmall town of Champaign in France, fitu¬
ated on the river Aifne, about 20 miles fouth ofRheims,
in 40 40' E. long, and 49° 25'N. lat.
ATINGUACU, in ornithology. See Cuculus.
ATLANTIC OCEAN, that bounded by Europe and
Africa on the eaft, and by America on the weft.
ATLYNTIDES, in aftronomy. See Pleiades.
ATLAS the name of a ridge of mountains, running from
eaft to weft through the north of Africa, from whence
the Atlantic Ocean took its name.
Atlas, in architedlure, the fame with telamon. See
Telamon.
Atlas, in anatomy, the name by which fome call the
firft vertebra of the neck j. fo. called in allufion to Mount
Atlas. Seep. 167.
Atlas, in njatters of literature, denotes a book of uni-
verfal geography, containing maps of all the known
parts of the world.
ATMOSPHERE, thevaft colledkion of air which fur-
rounds the earth for a great height. For the height and
other properties of the atmofphere, fee Pneumatics.
ATOM, in philofophy, a particle of matter, fo minute
as to admit qf no divifion. Atoms are the minima na~
tura, and are conceived as the firft principles or com¬
ponent parts of all phyfical magnitude. See Che¬
mistry.
ATOMICAL phil'/fophy, or the dodtrine of atoms, a
fyftem which, from the hypothefis that atoms are en¬
dued with gravity and motion, accounted for the ori¬
gin and formation of things. This philofophy was
firft broached by Mofchus, fome time before the Trojan
war ; but was much cultivated and improved by Epi¬
curus, whence it is denominated the Epicurean philo¬
fophy. See Epicurean.
ATONICS, in grammar, words not accented. See Ac¬
cent.
ATONY, in medicine, a defedl of tone or tendon, or a
laxity or debility of the folids of the body.
ATRA BILIS, black bile, one of the humours of the
ancient phyficians ; which the moderns call melan¬
choly.
ATRACTYLIS, in botany, a genus of the fyngenefia
polygamia sequalis clafs. The corolla is radiated, and
each corolla of the radius has five teeth. The fpecies
are three, none of which are natives of Britain.
ATRAGENE, in botany, a genus of the polyandria
polygynia clafs. The calix has four leaves; the pe¬
tals are 12 ; and the feeds are caudated. There are
three fpecies, all natives of the eaft.
ATRAPrIAXIS, in botany, a genus of the hexandria
digynia clafs. The calix has two leaves ; the petals
are two, and finuated ; and there is but one feed. There
are two fpecies ; viz. the fpinofa, a native of Media ;
and the undulata, a native of ./Ethiopia.
ATRiETI, in medicine, infants having no perforation
in the anus, or perfons imperforated in the vagina or
urethra.
ATRI, a town of the Farther Abruzzo, in the kingdom
of Naples, fituated in 150 20 E. long, and 420 40
N. lat.
ATRICAPILLA, in ornithology, a trivial name of a
fpecies of mufcicapa; and alfo of a fpecies of motacilla.
See Muscicapa, and Motacilla.
ATRICES, or Attrices, in medicine, tubercles about
the anus, reckoned a kind of condylomata.
ATRICI, in furgery, fmall finufes in the extremity of
the inteftinum reftum, which do not perforate into its
cavity.
ATRIPLEX, in botany, a genus of the polygamia mo-
noecia clafs. The calix of the hermaphrodite flower
has five leaves; it has no corolla; the ftamina are
five, and the ftylus is divided into two parts ; there is
but one deprefted feed. The calix of the female flower
has two leaves ; it has no corolla nor ftamina; the fty¬
lus is divided into two parts ; and there is but one de-
preffed feed. The fpecies are 12, of which eight are
natives of Britain; viz. the portulacoides, or fea-pur-
flain ; thalacineata, or j agged fea-orache; thehaftata,.
or fpear-leaved orache ; the eredia, or wild orache y
the patula, or narrow-leaved orache ; the ferrata, or
indented
ATT ( 503 ) ATT
indented fea-orache; the littoralis, or grafs-leaved
orache ; and the pedunculata, or {talked fea-orache.
ATROPA, in botany, a genus of the pentandria mono-
gynia clafs. The corolla is (haped like a bell; the
{lamina are diftant; the berry is globular, and confifts
of two cells or apartments. The fpecies are live; viz.
1. The mandragora, or mandrake, a native of Spain
and the Eaft. The mandrake is divided into male and
female. The male mandrake has a very large, long,
and thick root; it is largeft at the top or head, and
from thence gradually grows fmaller. Sometimes it is
f ngle and undivided to the bottom: but more frequent¬
ly it is divided into two, fometimes into three, or
more parts. From this root there arife a number of
very long leaves, broadell in the middle, narrow to¬
wards the bafe, and obtufely pointed at the end ; they
are of a foot or more in length, and five inches or
thereabouts in breadth ; they are of a dullcy and difa-
greeable green colour, and of a very foetid fmell. The
female mandrake perfectly refembles the other in its
manner of growth : but the leaves are longer and nar¬
rower, and of a darker colour, as are alfo the feeds
and roots. Authors have fpoken very largely and idly
of the virtues of this plant. The molt common qua¬
lity attributed to it, is that of rendering barren wo¬
men fruitful: but we have no tolerable foundation for
this : what we certainly know of it is, that it has a fo-
porific virtue like that of opium; and the bark in fmall
dofes, Herman affures us, has often been known to do
great fervice in hyfteric complaints ; but it {hould be
ufed fparingly, otherwife it will often bring on con-
vulfions, and many other mifehievous fymptoms. The
ancients ufed it when they wanted a narcotic of the
mofi: powerful kind. 2. The balladona, or deadly
night-ihade, a native of Britain : the berries are poi-
fenous. 3. The phyfalodes, a native of Peru. 4. The
frutefeens, a native of Spain ; and, 5. The arborefeens*.
a native of America.
ATROPHY, in medicine, a difeafe, wherein the body,
or fome of its parts, do not receive the necefiary nu¬
triment, but wade and decay inceffantly. See Me¬
dicine.
ATTACHING, or Attachment, in Englilh law,
the taking or apprehending of a perfon, by virtue of a
writ or precept.
Attachment out of the Chancery, is obtained upon an
affidavit made, that the defendant was ferved with a
fubpeena, and made no appearance ;, or it iffuethupoa
not performing fome order or decree.
Attachment out of the Foreft, is one of the three
courts held in the Foreft. The lowed court is called
the court of Attachment, or •wood-mote court-, the
mean, pwan mote ; and the higheft, the jujik-e in eyre's
feat. This attachment is by three means, by goods
and chattels, by body, pledges, and mainprize, or
the body only. This court is held every forty days
throughout the year, whence it is called forty-days
court.
Attachment of privilege, is by virtue of a man’s pri¬
vilege to call another to that court whereto he him-
felf belongs, and in refpedt whereof He is privileged to
anfwer fome a&ion.
Attachment in the old Engliffi ftatutebooks,
imports a diftrefs taken upon the goods or chattels of
a perfon fued for a perfonal eftate, or debt, by the
legal attachiators, or bailiffs, as a fecurity to anfwer
the adlion.
ATTAINDER, in Scots law. See Treason.
ATTAINT, in law, a writ which lies againft a jury
that have given a falfe verdidt in any court of record,
in a real or perfonal aftion, where the debt or damages
amount to above forty {hillings.
Attaint, among farriers, a knock or hurt in a horfe’s
leg, proceeding either from a blow with another hoi fe’s
foot, or from an over-reach in frofty weather, when
a horfe being rough-ffiod, or having ffioes with long,
calkers, ftrikes his hinder feet againft his fore leg.
ATTAINTED, in law, is applied to a perfon’s being,
found guilty of any crime or offence, efpecially trea-
fon or felony, by due courfe of law.
ATTELABUS, in zoology, a genus of infedls belong
ing to the order of coleoptera or beetle-kind. It has
four wings, of which the fupeiior is cruftaceous, and
ferve as a ffieath of cover to the inferior, which are
membranous. The head tapers behind, and is incli¬
ned; the feelers turn thicker toward the apex. The
fpecies are 13 ; viz 1. The coryli is black, with red
elytra or eruftaceous wings. 2. The avellanas is
black, with thebreaft, feet, and elytra red. 3. The
curculionoides is black, with red elytra and breaft.
The above three fpecies frequent the leaves of the ha¬
zel and filbert nut-trees. 4. The furinamenfis has a
double indentation (or two teeth) in the top of the e-
lytra. It is a native of Surinam. 5. The penfilva-
nicus is black, with red elytra, a black belt round the
middle, and another towards the apex of the elytra.
It is a native of Philadelphia. 6. The melanurus is
black, with teftaceous elytra black at the apex. It is
a native of Sweden- 7. The betulae has faltatory or
fpringy legs, and the whole body is of a dark-red co¬
lour. It frequents the leaves of the birch-tree.
8. The formicarius is black, with red elytra, and a
double white belt toward the bafe. It is a native of
Europe. 9. The fipylus is green, with a hairy breaft,
and a double yellow belt upon the elytra. 10. The
apiarius is bluiffi, with red elytra, and three black
belts. It is a native of Germany, n. The mollis
is yellowifh and hairy,,, u'itb pale elytra, and three
belts. It is a native of Europe. 12. Theceramboi-
des is of a blackilh red colour, and the elytra is fur¬
rowed. It frequents the fpOngy boletus, a fpecies of
muftiroom. 13. The bupreftoides is of a dark-red
colour, with- a globular breaft, and nervous elytra.
It is a native of Europe.
ATTENUANTS, medicines which refolve thevifeofity
of the humours ; thereby promoting their circulation,
as well as the difeharge of all noxious or excrementi-
tious matter.
ATTESTATION, the aft of affirming or w'itneffing
the truth of fomethiug, more efpecially in writing.
ATTIC,
ATT ( 504 ) A U B
ATTIC, any thing relating to Attica, or to the city of
Athens: thus Attic fait, in philology, is a delicate
poignant fort of wit and humour peculiar to the Athe¬
nian writers; Attic witnefs, a wi'tnefs incapable of
corruption, ire.
Attic, in archite&ure, a fort of building wherein the
roof or covering is not to be feen; thus named, be-
caufe the buildings at Athens were generally of this
form.
Attic order, a fmall order raifed upon a large one, by
way.of crowning, or to finilh the building; or it is,
according to fome, a kind of rich pedeilal, fometimes
ufed for the conveniency of having a wardrobe, or the
like; and inftead of columns, has only pilafters of a
particular form, and fometimes no pilalters at all.
The name Attic is alfo given to a whole llory into
which this order enters; this little order being always
found over another greater one.
Attic baft, a peculiar kind of bafe ufed by the ancient
architedls in the Ionic order; and by Palladio, and
fome others, in the Doric.
ATTIRE, in botany. See Anther/e.
Attire, in hunting, fignifies the head or horns of a
deer. The attire of a flag, if perfecT:, confifts of
bur, pearls, beam, gutters, antler, fur-antler, royal,
fur-royal, and croches ; of a buck, of the bur, beam,
brow-antler, advancer, palm, and fpellers.
ATTITUDE, in painting and fculpture, the gellure of
a figure or ftatue; or it is fuch a difpofition of their
parts as ferves to exprefs the adtion and fentiments of
the perfon reprefented.
ATTLEBURY, a market-town of Norfolk, about
eighty miles north-eaft of London, fituated in 40 E.
long, and 520 3c/ N. lat.
ATTOCK, a city on the eaftern frontiers of Perfia,
capital of a province of the fame name, and fituated
on the river Attock, in 720 E. long, and 330 N.lat.
ATTOLLENS, in anatomy, an appellation given to fe-
veral mufcles, otherwife called Lvateres and eleva-
tores.
ATTORNEY, a perfon who by confent, command¬
ment, or requeft, takes heed, fees, and takes upon
him the charge of other mens bufinefs, in their ab-
fence. Attorney is either general or fpecial: Attor¬
ney-general is he that by general authority is appoint¬
ed to all our affairs or fuits ; as the attorney-general
of the king, which is nearly the fame with procurator
Csefaris in the Roman empire. Attorneys-general are
made either by. the king’s letters-patent, or by our ap¬
pointment before juftices in eyre, in open court. At¬
torney fpecial or paiticular, is he that is employed in
one or more caufes particularly fpecified. There; are
alfo, in fefpedt of the divers courts, attorneys at
large, and attorneys fpecial, belonging to this or that
court only.
Attorneys in common law, are nearly the fame with
prodtors in the civil law, and folicitors in courts of
equity. Attorneys fue out writs of procefs, or com¬
mence, carry on, and defend aflions, or other pro¬
ceedings, in the names of other perfobs, in the courts
.of common law. None are admitted to aft without
having ferved a clerkfhip for five years, taking the
proper oath, being enrolled, and examined by the
judges. The attorney-general pleads within the bar.
To him come warrants fbr making out patents, par¬
dons, ic. and he is the principal manager of all law-
affairs of the crown.
Letter of Attorney. See Letter.
Warrant of Attorney. See Warrant.
ATTOURNMENT, or Attornment, in law, a
transfer from one lord to another of the homage and
fervice a tenant makes; or that acknowledgment of
duty to a new lord.
ATTRACTION, in natural philofophy, an indefinite
term, applicable to all aftions whereby bodies tend to¬
wards one another, whether in virtue of their weight,
magnetifm, eleftricity, impulfe, or any other latent
power. See Mechanics, Electricity, he.
Elective Attractions. See Chemistry.
ATTRIBUTE, in a general fenfe, that which agrees
with fome perfon or thing ; or a quality determining
fomething to be after a certain manner. Thus, under-
ftanding is an attribute of mind, and extenfion an at¬
tribute of body, That attribute which the mind con¬
ceives as the foundation of all the reft, is called its
effential attribute : thus extenfion is by fome, and fo-
lidity by others, efteemed the effential attributes of
body or matter.
Attributes, in theology, the feveral qualities or per-
feftions of the Divine nature, as wifdom, power, ju-
ftice, goodnefs, ic.
Attributes, in logic, are the predicates of any fub-
jeft, or what may be affirmed or denied of any thing.
Attributes, in painting and fculpture, are fytpbols
added to feveral figures, to intimate their particular
office and charafter. Thus, the eagle is an attribute
of Jupiter ; a peacock, of Juno; a caduce, of Mer¬
cury ; a club, of Hercules ; and a palm, of Viftory.
ATTRITION, the rubbing or ftriking of bodies one a-
gainft another, fo as to throw off fome of their fuper-
ficial particles.
AVA, a kingdom of India, beyond ;he Ganges, fituated
on the north eaft part of the bay of Bengal, between
the countries of Arracan on the north, and Pegu on
the fouth.
AVALON, a town of Burgundy in France, fituated in
30 50' E. long, and 470 25' N. lat.
AVARIA, in the cuftoms of Turky and Perfia, money
exafted from Chriftians or Europeans, to be quit of
fome falfe accufation formed on purpofe.
AVAST, in the fea-langue, a term requiring to ftop,
or to ftay.
AVAUNCHERS, among hunters, the fecond branches
of a deer’s horns. See Head.
AUBAGNE, a town of Provence in France, fituated a-
bout feven miles fouthward of Marfeilles, in y0 3c/
E. long. 430 ly' N. lat.
AUBANE, in the cuftoms of France, a right veiled in
the king of being beir to a foreigner that dies within
his dominions.
By this right the French king claims the inheritance
of all foreigners that die within his dominions, not-
withftand-
A U D ( 505 ) A V E
withftandlng of any teftament the deceafed could make.
An ambaffador is not fubjedt to the right of aubaae;
and the Switz, Savoyards, Scots, and Portuguefe, are
alfo exempted, being deemed natives and regnicoles.
AUBE, a river of France, which, arifing in the fouth-
eaft part of Champaigne, runs north-weft, and falls
into the Seine below Plancy.
AUBIGNE, a town of France, in the province of Ber¬
ry, and government of Orleans, lituated in 20 20 E.
long, and 47° $ N. lat.
AUBIN, ordi/AuBiN, a town of Brittany in France;
its W. long, being i° 30', and N. lat. 48° 15'.
Aubin, in horfemanlhip, a broken kind of gate, be¬
tween an amble and a gallop, accounted a defedf.
AUBURN, a market-town in Wilthihire, fituated about
24 miles weft of Reading, in 10 46, W. long, and
510 30' N. lat.
AUBUSSON, a town a France, in the province of
Marche, and government of Lyonois : E. long. 20 15',
and N. lat. 450 55'.
AUCTION, a kind of public fale, very much in ufe for
houfehold-goods, books, plate, By this method
of fale the higheft bidder is always the buyer. This
was originally a kind of fale among the ancient Ro¬
mans, performed by the public crier fub hafia, i. e.
under a fpear ftuck up on that occafion, and by fome
magiftrate, who made good the fale by delivery of the
goods.
Auction by inch of candle. See Candle.
AUDE, a river of France, which, uking its rife in the
Pyrenees, runs northwards by Alet and Carcaflbne;
and from thence turning eaftward through Languedoc,
falls into the Mediterranean, a little to the north-eaft
of Narbonne.
AUDIANISM, the fame with anthropomorphifm. See
Anthropomorphites.
AUDIENCE, given to ambafladors, ceremonies obfer-
ved in courts, at the admiflion of ambafladors, or
public minifters, to a hearing.
In England, audience is given to ambafladors in the
prefence-chamber; to envoys and refidents, in a gal¬
lery, clofet, or in any place where the king happens
to be. Upon being admitted, as is the cuftom of all
courts, they make three bows, after which they cover
and fit down; but not before the king is covered and
fat down, and has given them the fign to put on their
hats.
When the king does not care to have them cover¬
ed, and fit, he himfeif ftands uncovered; which is ta¬
ken as a flight.
At Conftahtinople, minifters ufually have audience
of the prime vizier.
AuDiENCE-coarr, a court belonging to the archbiftiop
of Canterbury, of equal authority with the arches-
court, though inferior both in dignity and antiquity.
The original of this court was, becaufe the archbiftiop
of Canterbury heard feveral caufes extrajudicially at
home in his own palace ; in which, before he would
finally determine any thing, he ufually committed
them to be difcufied by men learned in the civil and
canon laws, whom, thereupon, he called his auditors ;
Vol. I. No. 22. 3
and fo in time it became the power of the man who
is called caufarum negotiorumque audentia; Cuntuari-
enfis audit or, feu officinalis.
Chamber of Audience. See Chamber.
AUDIT, a regular hearing and examination of an ac¬
count by fome proper officers, appointed for that pur-
pofe.
AUDITOR, in a general fenfe, a hearer, or one who
liftens and attends to any thing.
Auditor, according to our law, is an officer of the
king, or fome other great perfon, who, by examining
yearly the accounts of the under-officers, makes up a
general book, with the difference between their re¬
ceipts and charges, and their allowances to allocations.
Auditor of the riceipts, is an officer of the exchequer
who files the tellers bills, makes an entry of them,
and gives the Jord-treafurer a certificate of the mo¬
ney received the week before. He alfo makes deben¬
tures to every teller, before they receive any money,
and take their accounts. He keeps the black book of
receipts, and the treafurer’s key of the treafury, and
fees every teller’s money locked up in the new trea¬
fury.
Auditors of the revenue, or of the exchequer, officers
who take the accounts of thofe who colled the reve¬
nues and taxes raifed by parliament, and take the ac¬
counts of the ffieriffs, efcheators, colledors, tenants,
and cuftomers, and fet them down in a book, and per-
fed them.
Auditors of the prefl and impreft, are officers of the
exchequer, who take and make up the accounts of
Ireland, Berwick, the mint, and of any money im-
preffed to any man for the king’s fervice.
Auditors collegiate, conventual, &c. officers former¬
ly appointed in colleges, &c. to examine and pafs
their accounts.
Auditory nerves, in anatomy. See p. 249.
AVAIL of marriage, in Scots Jaw, that cafualty in
ward-holding, by which the fuperior was intitled to a
certain fum from his vaflal, upon his attaining the age
of puberty, as the value or avail of his tocher. See
Scots Law, tit. Of cafualties due to the fuperior.
AVEIN, a town in the duchy of Luxemburg, remark¬
able for a vidory which the French obtained over the
Spaniards in 1635.
AVELLANA, in botany. See Corylus.
Avellana/>«rgw/r/x, a name fometimes given to the
fruit of the ricinus. See Ricinus.
AVELLANE, in heraldry, a crofs, the quarters of which
fomewhat refemble a filbett-nut. Sylvanus Morgan
fays, that it is the crofs which enfigns the mound of
authority, or the fovereign’s globe.
AVELLINO, a town of the kingdom of Naples, and
province of Principata, fituated about 25 miles eaft
of the city of Naples, in 150 20 E. long, and 410
N. lat.
AVE-MARIA, the angel Gabriel’s fallutation of the
the Virgin Mary, when he brought her the tidings of
the incarnation.—It is become a prayer or form of
devotion in the Romiffi church. Their chaplets and
rofaries are divided into fq many ave-maries, and fo
f 6 M . many
A V E ( 506 ) AUG
many pater-nofters, to which the papifts afcribe a
wonderful efficacy.
AVENA, oats, in botany, a genus of the triandria di-
gynia clafs. The calix has a double valve; and the
awn on the back is contorted. The fpecies are 13,
i'iK of them natives of Britain ; viz. 1. The nuda, or
naked' oats. 2. The fatua or bearded oat-grafs.
3. The pratenfis, or meadow oat-grafs. 4. The pu-
befcens, or rough oat-grafs. 5. The elatior, or tall
oat-grafs. 6. The flavefcens, or yellow oat-grafs.
It is remarkable, that the native place of the fativa, or
common oat, cultivated in our fields,, is almoft totally
unknown. Anion fays, that he obferved it growing
wild or fpontaneoufiy in the ifland of Juan Fernan¬
dez. But a vague obfervation from an author of that
kind is not to be depended on,
AVENACEOUS, fomething belonging to, or partaking
of the nature of oats. '
AVENAGE, in law, a certain quantity of oats paid by
a tenant to a landlord, inltead of rent, or fome other
duties.
AVENOR, an officer belonging to the king’s llables,
•who provides oats for the horfes. He ads by war¬
rant from the mailer of the horfe.
AVENS, in botany. See Caryophillus.
AVENTURE, in law books, means a mifchance, cau-
fing the death of a perfon without felony.
AVENUE, in gardening, a walk planted on each fide
with trees, and leading to an houfe, garden-gate,
wood, <&c. and generally terminated by fome diltant
objed. See Gardening.
AVERAGE, in commerce, fignifies the accidents and
misfortunes which happen to Ihips, and their cargoes,
from the time of their loading and failing to their re
turn and unloading; and is divided into three kinds.
1. The limple or particular average, which confilts in
the extraordinary expences incurred for the Ihip alone,
or for the merchandizes alone. Such is the lofs of an¬
chors, malls, and rigging, occafioned by the common ac¬
cidents at fea; the damages which happen to merchants
by llorm, prize, ffiipwreck,, wet, or rotting; all which
mull be born and paid by the thing which fuffered the
damage. 2. The large and common average, being
thofe expences incurred, and damages fullained, for the
common good and fecurity both of the merchandizes
and velfels, confequently to be borne by the Ihip and
cargo, and to be regulated upon the whole. Of this
number are the goods or money given for the ranfom
of the Ihip and cargo, things, thrown averboard for the
fafety of the Ihip, the expences of unloading for entering
into a river or harbour, and the provilions and hire of
the failors when the Ihip is put under an embargo.
3. The fmall averages, which are the expences for
towing and piloting the Ihip out of, or into harbours,
creeks, or rivers, one third of which mull be char¬
ged to the Ihip, and two thirds to the cargo.
Average is more particularly ufed for a certain con-4
tribution that merchants make proportionably to their
Ioffes. It alfo fignifies a fmall duty which thofe mer¬
chants, who fend goods in another man’sThip, pay to
the mafter for bis care of them over aad above the
freight. Hence it is exprelfed in the bills of lading,
paying fo much freight for the laid goods, with primage
and average accullomed.
AVERANCE, or Auranche, a fea-port town in Nor¬
mandy, in France, fituated in i° ao'W. long, and
48° 4c/ N. lat.
AVER-CORN, that conveyed to the lord’s granary by
his tenants.
AVERDUPOIS, or Avoirdupois-weight, a fort
of weight ufed in England, the pound whereof is made
up of lixteen ounces. See Weight.
This is the weight for the larger and coarfer commo¬
dities, fuch-as groceries, cheefe, wool, lead, <6e.
Bakers, who live not in corporation-towns, are to make
their bread by avoirdupois-weight, thofe in corpora¬
tions by troy weight. Apothecaries buy by avoirdu¬
pois-weight, but fell by troy. The proportion of a
pound avoirdupois to a pound troy is as 17 to 14.
AVERIA, in a general fenfe, fignifies any cattle, but is
ufed in law for oxen, or horfes of the plough.
Replegiare de AVERIIS. See Replegiare.
AVERNI, among ancient naturalills, certain lakes, grot¬
toes, and other places, which infeft the air with poi-
fonous Hearns or vapours, called alfo viephites.
AVERRHOA, in botany, a genus of the decandria pen-
tagynia clafs. The calix has five leaves; the petals
are five, open at top ; and the apple or fruit is pen¬
tagonal, and divided into five cells. The fpecies are
three, ail natives of India.
AVERHOISTS, the followers of Averhoes, a celebra¬
ted commentator of Ariftotle, who denied the natural
immortality of the foul, and yet pretended to acquiefce
in the Chriflian dodtrine concerning it.
AVERRUNCI, in the ancient heathen theology, an or¬
der of deities among the Romans, whofe peculiar office
it was to avert danger and exile. Apollo and Hercu¬
les are fuppofed to be of this order.
AVERSA, a town of Naples, in the province of Lavoro,
fituated about 17 miles fouth of Capua, in 140 45' ,
E. long, and 410 15' N. lat.
AVES, fome fmall iflands, belonging to the Dutch, on
the coall of Terra Firma, in South America.
AVESNES, a little fortified town of Hainault, in the
French Netherlands ; fituated about 21 miles fouth of
Mons, in 30 E. long, and 50° id N. lat.
AUGMENT, in grammar, an accident of certain tenfes
of Greek verbs, being either the prefixing of a fylla-
ble, or an increafe of the quantity of the initial vowels.
Augments, in mathematics. See Fluctions.
AUGMENTATION, in a general fenfe, is the a£t of
adding or joining fomething to another with a defign
to render it large.
Augmentation is alfo ufed for the additament or.
thing added.
Augmentation was alfo the name of a court ere&ed
27 Hen. VIII. fo called from the augmentation of the
revenues of the crown, by the fiippreffion of religious
houfes ; and the office Hill remains, wherein there are
many curious records, tho’ the court has been diffolved
long fince.
Augmentation, in heraldry, are additional charges -
AUG ( 507 ) AVI
to a coat-armour, frequently given as particular marks
of honour, and generally borne either dn the efcutch-
eon or a conton j as have all the baronets of England,
who have borne the arms of the Province of Uilter, in
Ireland.
AUGRE, or Awgre, an inftrument ufed by carpenters
and joiners to bore large round holes ; and confiding
of a wooden handle, and an iron blade terminated at
. bottom with a Heel bit..
AUGSBURGH, a confiderable city of Swabia, in Ger¬
many ; fituated in 110 E. long, and 48° 2c/ N. lat. It
is an imperial city, and remarkable for being the place
where the Lutherans prefented their confeffion of faith
to the emperor Charles V. at a diet of the empire held
in 1550, from hence denominated the cwz-
fejfion.
AUGUR, an officer among the Romans appointed to
foretel future events, by the chattering and feeding of
birds. There was a college or community of them,
confiding originally of three members with refpeft to
the threeLuceres, Rhamnenfes, and Tatienfes : after¬
wards the number was increafed to nine, four of whom
were patricians and five plebeians. They bore an au¬
gural daff or wand, as the enfign of their authority ;
and their dignity was fo much refpe&ed, that they
were never dcpofed, nor any fubdituted in their place,
though they ffiould be convicted of the mod enormous
crimes. See Augury.
AUGURY, in antiquity, a fpecies of divination, or the
art of foretelling future events,,, is didinguilhed into
five forts. 1. Augury from the heavens. 2. From
birds. 3. From chickens. 4. From quadrupeds. 5.
From portentuous events. When an augury was taken,
the augur divided the heavens into four p^rts, and
having facrificed to the gods, he obferved, with great
attention, from what part the fign from heaven ap¬
peared. If, for indance, there happened a clap of
thunder from the left, it was taken as a good omen.
If a flock of birds came about a man, it was a favour¬
able prefage; but the flight of vultures was unlucky.
If, when corn was flung before the facred chickens,
they crouded about it, and eat it greedily, it was
looked upon as a favourable omen; but if they refufed
to eat and drink, it was an unlucky fign. See the article
Divination.
AUGUST, in chronology, the eighth month of ouryear,
containing thirty-one days. Augud was dedicated to
the honour of Augudus Caefar, becaufe, in the fame
month, he was created canful, thrice triumphed in
Rome, fubdued Egypt to the Roman empire, and made
an end of civil wars ; being before called Sexatilis, or
the fixth from March.
AUGUSTA, or Austa, an ifland in the gulph of Ve¬
nice, on the coad of Damaltia; fituated in 170 40'’ E.
long, and 42 0 35' N. lat.
AUGUSTBURG, a city of Germany, in upper Saxony,.
upon tne river Chop, fix leagues fouth of Drefden.
AUGUSTALES, in Roman antiquity, an epithet given
to the flamens or prieds appointed to facrifice to Au¬
gudus after his deification; and alfo to the ludi or
games celebrated in honour of the fame prince on the
fourth of the. ides of Oftober.
AUGUSTALIA, a fedival indituted by the Romans
in honour of Augudus Cafar, on his return to Rome,
after having fettled peace in Sicily, Greece, Syria,
Alia, and Parthia; on which occafion they likewife
built an altar to him, infcribed Fertuna reduci.
AUGUSTALIS Prxfeihu, a title peculiar to a Roman
magidrate who governed Egypt, with a power much
like that of a proconful in other provinces.
AUGUSTINE, or Ft, Augustine, the capital town
of Spanilh Florida in North America; fituated near the
frontiers of Georgia, in 8i° W. long, and 30° N. lat,
CAPE-AUGUST1N, a cape of Brazil, in South Ame¬
rica ; lying in 35 0 W. long, and 8° 30 S. Jat.
AUGUSTINS, a religious order in the church of Rome,
who follow the rule of St. Augudin, prefcribed
them by pope Alexander IV. Among other things,
this rule enjoins to have all things in common, to re¬
ceive nothing without the leave of their fupeior; and
feveral other precepts relating to charity, modelly, and
chadity. There are likewife nuns of this order.
The Augudins are clothed in black, and at Paris
are known under the name of the Religious of St. Ge¬
nevieve, that abbey being the chief of the order.
AUGUSTINUS, the name of Janfenius’s treadfe, from
which are colledled the five famous propofitions e*
numerated under the article Janfenifm. See Janse¬
nism.
AVIARY, a place fet apart for feeding and propagating
birds. Itfhould be fo large, as to give the birds fomc
freedom of flight; and turfed, to avoid the appearance
of foulnefs on the floor.
AVICIENNA, in botany. SeeBoNTiA.
AVIGLIANO, afmall town of Piedmont in Italy; fitu¬
ated about feven miles wed of Turin, in 70 E. long,
and 440 40' N. lat.
AVIGNON, a large city of Provence in France, fitu¬
ated on the ead fide of the river Rhone, about 20
miles fouth of Orange, in 40 40' E. long, and 43°
50° N. lat. It is an archbilhop’s fee, and, with the
whole didriid of Venaifline, fubjedt to the pope.
Avignon-berry, a name by which fome call the fruit
of the lycium, ufed in dying yellow. See Lycium.
AVILA, a beautiful city of Old Cadile in Spain, fitu¬
ated 30 miles N. W. of Madrid, in 50 20 W. long,
and 40° 50' N. lat,
AVILES, a fea-port town of Audria in Spain, in 6° 40*
W. long, and 430 3c/ N. lat,
AVIS, bird, in zoology. See Natural History.
Avis artica. See Larus.
Avis nivis. See Loxia.
Av\% paradifi.. See Muscicapa,
Avis pollygletta. See Turdus.
Avis rabo. See Pelicanus.
Avrs rabos. See Phaeton.
Avis venti. See Margus,
Avis is alfo the name of an order of knighthood in Por¬
tugal, indituted by Sancho the fird king, in imitation
of the order of Alcantara, whofe great crofs they wear.
AVISO, a term chiefly ufed in matters of commerce, to
denote an advertifement, an advice, .or piece of intel¬
ligence. See Advice.
AUK*-
A V O ( 5°8 ) A U R
AUKLAND, a mSrket-town on the river Ware, in the
bilhopric of Durham, fituatefl about 12 miles S. W.
of the city of Durham, in i° 25'' W. long, and 540
40' N. iat.
' AULCESTER, a market-town of Warwickfhire, fitu-
ated about fourteen miles fouth-weft of Warwick, in
i° 50' W. long, and 53° 20 N. lat.
AULIC, an epithet given to certain officers of the em¬
pire, who compofe a court which decides, without
appeal, in all procefleS entered in it. Thus we fay,
au-it' council, aulic chamber,, aulic eounfellor.
\ he aulic council is compofed of a prefident, who
is a catholic; of a vice-chancyllor, prefented by the
archbifhop of Mentz; and or eighteen counfellors,
nine of whom are proteftants, and nine catholics.
They are divided into a bench of lawyers., and always
follow the emperor’s court; for which reafon they are
called jujlitium imperatoris, the emperor’s juftice,
and aulic council. The aulic court ceafes at the death
of the emperor, whereas the imperial chamber of
Spire is perpetual, reprefenting not only the deceafed
emperor, but the whole Germanic body, which is re¬
puted never to die.
Aulic, in the Sorbonne and foreign univerfities, is an
adt which a young divine maintains upon being admitted
a doftor in divinity. It begins by an harangue of the
chancellor, addreffed to the young dodlor, after which
he receives the cap, and preifides at the aulic, or dif-
putation.
AULOS, a Grecian long meafure, the fame with fta-
dium.
AUMBRY, a country-word denoting a cup-board.
AUME, a Dutch meafure for Rhenifli wine, containing
forty Englifh gallons.
AUNCEL-WEIGHT, an ancient kind of balance, now
out of u!e, being prohibited by feveral flatutes, on
account of the many deceits pradtifed by it. It con-
fifted of fcales hanging on hooks, faflened at each end
of a beam, which a man lifted up on his hand. In
many parts of England, auncel-weight fignifies meat
fold by the hand, without fcales.
AUNE, a long meafure ufed in France to meafure
cloths, ftuffs, ribbons, <&c. At Rouen it is equal to
one Englifh ell; at Calais, to 1.52 ; at Lyons, to
i.of6; and at Paris, to 0.95.
AUNIS, a maritime province of France, on the wefl-
ern fhore of the Bay of Bifcay, having the province
of Poidtou on the north, and Santoigne on the fouth.
AVOCATORIA, a mandate of the emperor of Ger¬
many, addrefled to fome prince, in order to flop his
unlawful proceedings in any capfe appealed to him.
AVOIDANCE, in the canon law, is when a benefice
becomes void of an incumbent, which happens either
in fadt, as by the death of the perfon; or in rlaw,
as by ceflion, deprivation,, refignation, In the
firfl of thefe cafes, the patron mull take notice of the
avoidance, at his peril; but in avoidance by law, the
ordinary is obliged to give notice to the patron, in or¬
der to prevent a lapfe.
AVON, a river of England, which, taking its rife in
Wiltfhire, runs by Bath, where it becomes navigable,
and continues its courfe towards Briflol, below which
city it falls into the Severn.
Avon is alfo a river, which, riling in Leiceflerfhire,
runs fouth-weft by Warwick and Evefham, and falls
into the Severn at Tewkfbury in Gloucefterfhire.
AVOSETTA, in ornithology. See Recurvirostka,
AVOWEE, one who has a right to prefent to a bene¬
fice. See Advowson.
He is thus called in contradiftindl’on to thofe who
only have the lands to which the advowfon belongs for
a term of years, or by virtue of intrufion or difTeifin,
See Intrusion, &c.
AVOWRY, in law, is where a perfon diftrained fues
out a replevin ; for then the diftrainer muft vow, and
juftify his plea, which is called his avowry. See Re-
PLEVfiN.
AURA, among phyfiologifts, fignifies a vapour or exha¬
lation, fuch as thofe which arife from mephitical caves.
See Mephitis, and Exhalation.
Aura vitalis, in chemiftry, a term ufed by Helmont,
for what others call the jlamma vitalis, or vital flame.
Aura, in ornithology, the trivial name of a fpecies of
vulture. See Vulture.
AURACH, a town of Swabia in Germany, fituated
about 19 miles eaft of Tubingen, in p9 20/ E. long,
and 48° 25' N. lat.
AURANCHES, a large, ftrong, and well fortified city
of France in the Lower Normandy, fituated in x° 16'
W. long, and 48° 4/ N. lat.
AURANTIUM, in botany. See Citrus.
AURATA, in ichthyology, the trivial name of a fpe¬
cies of fparus. SeeSpARUs.
AURATUS eques. See Eques Auratus.
AURAY, a fea-port town of Brittany in France, fitu¬
ated about 18 miles fouth-eaft of Port-Lewis, in 29
45' W. long, and 47° 4c/ N. lat.
AURELIA, in natural hiilory, the fame with what is
more ufually called chryfalis, and fometimes nymph.
See Chrysalis.
AURELIANA, in botany. See Pinax.
AURENGABAD,' a large city in the province of Vi-
fiapour in India, on this fide the Ganges; E. long.
50 ^ci, and N. lat. 19° tj7.
AUREOLA, in its original fignification, fignifies a
jewel, which is proppfed as a reward of vi&ory in fome
public difpute. Hence, the Roman fchoolmen ap¬
plied it to denote the reward beftowed on martyrs,
virgins, and doftors, on accouht of their works of fu-
pererogation; and painters ufelt to fignify the crown
of glory, with which they adorn the heads of faints,
confdfors, be.
AUREUS, a Roman gold coin, equal in value to
twenty-five denarii.
AURICH, a town of Weftphalia in Germany, fituated
about 12 miles north-eaft of Embden, in 6° $d E.
long, and 53° 4c/ N. lat.
AURICHALCUM, or Orichalcum. See Ori-
CHALCUM.
AURICLE, in ana&omy, that part of the ear which is
prominent from the head, called by many authors au-
ris externa. See p. 295.
AURI-
A; U T ( 509 ) A w M
Avricles ate likewlfe two mufcula^ bags fituated at the
bafis of; the heart. Seep. 279.
AURICULA, in botany, afynonimeof the dodecatheon
and feveral other plants. See Dodecatheon, Pri¬
mula, Arenaria, <bc.
AURICULARIS Digitus, the little finger, fo called,
becaufe it is.ufed commonly to pick the ear.
AURIGA, the Wagoner, in aftronomy, a conllellation of
the northern hem'ilphere. See Astronomy, P..486.
AURILLAC, a neat and well-built city of France, in the
Upper Avergne, noted for its trade in bone-lace: it
is lituated in 3Q0 31' E. long, and J40 44' N. lat.
AURIPIGMENTUM, orpiment, in natural hiftory.
See Orpiment.
AURISCALPIUM, an inftrument to clean the ears,
and.ferving alfo for other operations in diforders of
that part.
AURORA, the morning-twilight, or that faint light
which appears in the morning, when the fun is within
eighteen degrees of the horizon.
AURORA Borealis, is an extraordinary meteor,
fhewing itfelf in the night time, in the northern part
of the heavens. See Pneumatics, Of Meteors.
AURUM, gold, in natural-hiftory. See Chemistry,
Of metals.
AUSPEX, a name anciently ufed for augur. See
Augur.
AUSTRAL, fomething relating to the fouth : thus the
fix figns on the fouth fide of the equino&ial are called
aujlral Jigns.
AUSTRAL Fijh, a fmall; conftellation of the fouthern
hemifphere, invifible to us..
AUSTRIA, a circle of Germany, comprehending the
arch-duchy of Auftria, alfo Styria, Carinthia, Car-
niola, Tyrol, Trent, and Brixen. It is bounded by
Bohemia and Moravia on the north; by Hungary,
Sclavonia, and Croatia on the eaft; by the dominions
of Venice on the.fouth, and byBavariaon the weft.
AUSTRIAN Netherlands. See Netherlands.
AUTHENTIC, fomething of acknowledged and re¬
ceived authority. In law, it fignifies; fomething clo¬
thed in all its formalities, and attefted by perfons to
whom credit has been regularly given. Thus we fay,
authentic papers, authentic inftruments.
AUTHOR, properly fignifies one who created or pro¬
duced any thing. Thus God, by way of eminence, is '
called the author of nature, the author of the univerfe.
AUTHOR, in matters of literature, a perfon who has
.compofed fome book or writing.
AUTHORITY, in a general fenfe, fignifies a right to
command, and make one’s felf obeyed. In which
fenfe, we fay, the royal authority, the epifcopal au¬
thority, the authority of a father, <&c. It denotes
' alfo the teftimony of an author, fome apophthegm or
lentence of an eminent perfon quoted in a difcourfe by
way of proof.
Authority is reprefented, in painting, like a grave
matron fitting in a chair of ftate, richly clothed in a
garment embroidered with gold, holding in her right-
hand a fword, and in her left a fceptre. By her fide
is a double trophy of books and arms.
Vol. I. No. 22. 3
AUTO DE FE, a<ft of faith. See \cr of faith.
AUTOGRAPH, denotes a perfon’s hand-writing, or
the original manufcript of any book, <bc.
AUTOMATUM, or Automaton, an inftrument, or
rather machine, which by means of fprings, weights,
&c. feems to move ftfelf, as a watch, clock, <bc. Such
alfo were Archytus’s flying dove, Regiomontanus's
wooden-eagle, drc.
AUTUMN, the third feafon of the year, when the har-
veft and fruits are gathered in.—Autumn is reprefented,
in painting, by a man at perfedf age, clothed like the
vernal, and likewife girded with a ftarry girdle; hold¬
ing in one hand a pair of fcales equally poifed, with a
globe in each; in the other a bunch of divers fruits
and grapes. His age denotes the perfection of this
feafon ; and the bafance, that fign of the zodiac which
the fun enters when our autumn begins
AUTUMNAL Point, is that part of the equinox from
which the fun begins todefcend towards the fouth pole.
Autumnal Signs, in aftronomy, are the figns Libra,
Scorpio, Sagittarius, through which tire fun pafies
during the autumn.
Autumnal Equinox, that time when the fun enters
the autumnal point.
AUTUN, a city of Burgundy in France, fituated on the
.. river Arroux, in .4° 15' E. long, and 46° 50' N. lat.
AUVERGNE, a territory of theLyonois in France ; ly¬
ing between the Bourbonois on the north, and the Ce-
vennes on the fouth.
AUX, in aftronomy, the fame with the apogeum. of the
ancients, or the aphelium.of the moderns. See Apo¬
geum and Aphelium. It alfo denoted the arch
. of the ecliptic, intercepted between the firft degree of
Aries and the apogeum.
Aux, or Augh, in geography, the capital city of Gaf-
cony in France. It is one of the richeft archbiihop’s
fees in France, though hut a fmall town; fituated in
20' E. long, and 430 40' N. lat.
AUXERRE, a city of Burgundy, in France, fituated on
the Hver Yonne, in 301 3 f E. long, and 470 40' N. lat.
AUXILIARY, whatever is aiding or helping to another.
Auxiliary Verbs, in grammar, are fuch as help to form
or, conjugate others ; that is, are prefixed to them, to
form or denote the moods or tenfes thereof; as to
have and to be, in the Englilh; etre and avoir, in the
French ; ho and fono in the Italian, tec.
In the Engltih language, the auxiliary verb am, fup-
plies the want of pallive verbs.
AUXONE, a fmall city of Burgundy, in France, fitu¬
ated on the river Soane, about feven miles weft of
Dole, in 50 22' E. long, and 47° 15' N. lat.
AWARD, in law, the judgment of an arbitrator, or of
one who is not appointed by the law a judge, but
chofen by the parties themfelves for terminating their
difference. See Arbiter.
.AWL, among ftioe-makers, an inftrument wherewith
holes are bored through the leather,, to facilitate the
Hitching, or fewing the fame; The blade of the awl
is ufually a little flat and bended, and the point ground
to an acute angle,
AWME, or Aume, a Dutch liquid meafure containing
6 N f eight
A X I (5
eight fteckans, or twenty verges or verteels, equal to
the tierce in England, or to one fixth of a tun of
France.
A WIST, in botany. See Arista.
AWNING, in the fea-language, is the hanging a fail,
tarpaulin, or the like, over any part of the (hipj to
keep off the fun, rain, or wind.
AX-VETCH. See SteuaiDACA.
AXBRIDGE, a market-town of Somerfetfliire, fituated
about eight miles north-weft of Wells, in 30 W. long,
and 510 30' N. lat.
AXEL, a fmall fortified town of Dutch Flanders, litua-
ted about 20 miles weft of Antwerpt, in 30 40' E.
long, and 510 20' N. lat.
AXILLA, in anatomy, the arm-pit, or the cavity under
the upper part of the arm.
AXILLA, in botany, the angle formed by a branch and
the ftem, or a leaf and the branch.
AXIM', a town on the Gold Coaft of Guinea, where the
Dutch have a fort and fadtory, called St. Anthony : 40
W. long, and 50 N. lat.
AXIOM, in philofophy, any plain, felf-evident, and re¬
ceived notion, that cannot be made more plain and evi¬
dent by demonftration. It is alfo an eftablifhed prin¬
ciple in fome art or feience.
AXIOPOLIS,. a town of Bulgaria, fubjedl to the Turks.
It ftands upon the river Danube.
AXIS, in geometry, the ftraight line in a plain figure,
about which it revolves, to produce or generate a fo-
lid: thus, if a femi-circle be moved round its diame¬
ter at reft, it will generate a fphere, the axis of which
is that diameter.
Axis, in aftronomy, is an imaginary right line fuppofed
to pafs through the centre of the earth, and the hea¬
venly bodies, about which they perform their diurnal
revolutions.
Axis, in conic-fedlions, a right line dividing the fedtion
into two equal parts, and cutting all its ordinates at
right angles. See Cotiic Sections.
Axis, in mechanics. The axis of a balance is that line
about which it moves, or rather turns about. Axis
of ofciRation is a right line parallel to the horizon,
palling through the centre about which a pendulum
vibrates. See Mechanics:.
Axis in peritrovhio, one of the five mechanical powers,
confifting of- a peritrochium or wheel concentric with
with the bafe of a cylinder, and moveable together
with it about its axis. See Mechanics.
Axis, in optics, is that particular ray of light coming
from any objedt which falls perpendicularly on the eye.
See Optics.
Axis-, in architedture, fpiralaxis, is the axis of a twill¬
ed column drawn fpirally, in order to trace the. cir¬
cumvolutions without.
Axis of the Ionic capital, is a line palling perpendi¬
cularly through the middle of the eye of the volute.
See Architecture.
Axis of a veflel is an imaginary right line palling
through tire middle of it perpendicularly to its bafe,
and equally diftant from its fidci.
[o ) A Z I
Axis, in anatomy, the fecond vertebra of the neck, fb
called from the head’s turning on it like an axis.
Axis, in zoology. See Cervus.
AXMINSTER, a market-town of Devonlhire, fituated
about 22 miles call of Exeter, m30 ij' W. long,
and jo° 40' N. lat.
AXUMA, a city of Ethiopia in Africa, fituated in 38®
E. long, and 150 N. lat.
AXUNGIA, in a general fenfe, denotes old lard, or
the drkft and hardeft of any fat in the bodies of ani¬
mals r But, more properly, it fignifies only hogs-lard.
Axungia folis, in natural hiftory, the fame with the
Silefian earth.
Axungia vitri, Sandivbr, or Salt ofglnfs, a kind
of fait which feparates from the giafs while it is in fu-
fion. It is of an acrimonious and'biting tafte. The
farriers ufe it for cleanfing the eyes of horfes. It is
alfo made ufe of for cleanfing the teeth ; and is foma-
times applied to running ulcers, the herpes, or the
itch, by way of deficcative.
AXYRIS, in botany, a genus of the monoecia triandria
clafs. The calix of the male is tripartite ; it has no-
corolla. The calix of the female confifts of two
leaves; it has two ftyli, and one feed. The fpecies
are 4, none of them natives of Britain.
AYAMONTE, a fea-port town of Andalufia, in Spain,
fituated near the mouth of the river Guadiana,, in 8°
f W. long, and 370 N. lat.,
AYENI A, in botany, a genus of the gynandria pentan-
dria clafs. The calix has two leaves ; the petals are
in the form of a ftar, with long ungues ; and the capfule
has five cells. There are three fpecies, all natives of
the W. Indies.
AYRY, or Ae r y of hawks, a neft or company of
hawks, fo called from the old French word airs,
which fignified the fame.
AZAB, in the Turkilh armies, a diftind body of fol-
diery, who are great rivals of the Janizaries.
AZALEA, rn botany, a genus of the pentandria mono-
gynia clafs. The corolla is bell-lhaped; the flamina
are inferted into the receptacle ; and the capfule has
five cells. The fpecies are fix, moft of them natives
of America.
AZAMOR, & maritime city of Africa, in the kingdom
of Morocco, and province of Duquda, fituated in 6-°
30' W. long, and 320 5c/ N. lat.
AZAROLUS, in botany.. See Cratadgus.
AZARUM, in botany. See Asarum.
AZAZEL, the fcape-goat, in Jewifli antiquity. See;
Scape-goat.
AZED, in the materia medica, a kind of camphor.. See
Camphor.
AZERADACH, in botany. See Mel ia^
AZIMUTH, in aftronomy, an arch of. the horizon^ in¬
tercepted between the meridian of the place and. the
azimuth, or vertical circle palling through the cen¬
tre of the objed, which is; equal to the angle of the
zenith, formed by the meridian and vertical circle; or
it is found by this proportion, as the radius to the
tangent of the latitude of the place, fo is the tangent
r of me-
A Z O ( 5ii ) A Z Y
of the fun’s or ffar’s altitude, for inftance, to the co- AZOTH, in ancient chemiftry, the firft 1
fine of the azimuth from the fouth, at the time of the tals, or the mercury of a metal; mor
equinox. To find the azimuth by the globe, fee that which they call ^
Geography. which they pretend to c
Magnet ical Azimuth, an arch of the horizon intercep- bodies.
ted between the azimuth, or vertical circle, palling AZURE, in a general fenfe, the blue colour of the/ky.
through the centre of any heavenly body, and the See Sky and Blue.
magnetical meridian. This is found by obferving the Azure, ami
objeft with an azimuth-compafs. a greenifh
Azimuth-compafsy an inftrument adapted to find, in a rally callec
pafs, the fun or ftars magnetical amplitude, ^aS- that brighfblue c6lou‘r prepared from the lapis a
muth. See Compass. nus, a different ftone from the lapis lazuli, though
AziMUTH-fifo/, one whofe ftyle or gnomen is at right frequently confounded together. This colour is, by
angles to the plane of the horizon. our painters, commonly called Lambert's blue.
Azimuth-c/Vc/w', called azimuths, or vertical circles, Azure, in heraldry, the blue colour- in the arms of a-
are great circles of the fphere, interfeding each o- ny perfon below the rank of a baron. In the efcutche-
ther in the zenith and nadir, and cutting the horizc
at right angles in all the points thereof.
AZOGA /hips, are thofe Spanifh fhips c
on of a n
, it is called fapphtre; and in that of
a fovereign prince, Jupiter. In engraving, this co-
y called lour is exprefied by lines, or ftrokes drawn horizoir-
the quick-jilver Jhips, from their carrying quick-filver tally.
to the Spanifh W. Indies, in order to extract the fil- AZURIUM, the name of a chemical preparation from
ver out of the mines of Mexico and Peru. Thefe two parts of mercury, one of fulphur, and a fourth of
fhips, ftriaiy fpeaking, are not to carry any goods fal ammoniac, mixed in a mortar, put into a glafs vef-
unlefs for the king of Spain’s account. . fel, and fet over the fire till a bluifh fmoak arifes,
AZONI, in ancient mythology, a name applied by the AZYGOS, in anatomy, a< vein rifing within the tho-
Greeks to fuch of the gods as were deities at large, rax on the right fide, having no fellow on the left;
not appropriated to the worfhip of any par
or country ; but acknowledged in general
tries, and worfhipped by every nation. T1
e it is called azygos, or vena fine pari. See
by every nation. Thefe the La- AZYMITES, i
Of this fort were the fun, nifter the eucharifl ’
bread. This is
an appellation given by the Latin to the Greek church ;
1 geography. See Asoph-. who alfo call the Armenians'and Maronites, who ufe
ifiands in the Atlantic ocean* between 250 unleavened bread in their office, by the name of Azy-
and 330 W. long, and between 36^ and 40° N. lat. mites.
They belong to the Portuguefe, and are fometimes AZYMOUS, fomething unfermented, as bread, <kc,
called the Weftern I' ' - - --
AZOPH, in
AZORES,
, Ifies, as lying weftward of Eu-
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQQOOOOOOOOO
B
A C
T) AAR, a country of S'
i3
D cipality of Fu,
Danube and the N<
BABELMANDEL, a little ifland at the 1
leprim. Babylon was alfo a’
of the to have flood when
t city of Egypt, fuppofed
1 where. Grand Cairo does at prefent.
BABYROUSSA, in zoology,, a fynonime of a fpecies
of offus. SeeSus.
the Red-fea, from the Indian ocean from whence the BACA, a town of Granada, in Spain, fituated abc
ftraits of Babelmandel take their name. 4S miles north-eafl of the city of Granada, in 30 A
BABOON, in zoology, a fynonime of the fimia fphinx. long, and'37° 30' N. lat.
See Simia. BACALIAU,, c ~
YBYLON, a celebrated city of antiquity, fuppofed to BACCA, berry,
have been fituated on the river Euphrates, though not as confifl of ;
on its-prefent channel, in 44° E. long, and 32° N. lat. without any vt
But of this once fo flourilhing a city, there are now BACCARAT, ;
no remains; nor is. even the place where it Rood cer- tween Nanci a
long, and'3 70 30' N. 1;
BACALIAU,, or Barcallao. See Barcall^_
BABYLON, a celebrated city of antiquity, fuppofed to BACCA, berry,.in botany, is ufed to fignify fuch fruits
have been fituated on the river Euphrates, though not as confifl of a.pericarpium full of juice and feeds,
r t channel, in 440 E. long, and 320 N. lat. without any valves.
a of Lorrain upon the Meufe,.. be-
  i and EflivaL
toinly known, BACA-
BAG ( 512
BACCASERAI, the capital city of Crim-Tartary, fi-
tuated about 80 miles well of the llraits of Kaffa, in
350 E. long, and 450 15' N. lat.
BACCEM, orBACiAiM, a lea-port town of Cambaya,
in the Hither Peninfula of India. It belongs to the
Portuguefe, and is fituated in 730 E. long, and i^°
20 N. lat.
BACCHiE, in antiquity, prieftelfes of the god Bacchus.
They were likewife called tnxnades, on account of
the frantic ceremonies ufed in their feafts ; as alfo thy-
ada, which lignifies impetuous or furious. They ce¬
lebrated the orgies of their god covered with Ikins
of tigers and panthers, and running all the night,
fome with their hair loofe, with torches in their hands,
others crowned with vine and ivy leaves, carrying a
vhyrfus or rod, turned about with ivy, in their hand.
Along with them went cymbal-players and drummers,
while they themfelves, feized with enthufiafm, made
hideous lamentations.
BACCHANALIA, fealls celebrated in honour of Bac¬
chus by the ancient Greeks and Romans; of which
the two moll remarkable were called the greater
and, lejfer. The latter, called lenaa, from a word
iignifying a ’wine-prefs, were a preparation for the
for the former, and were held in the open fields about
autumn; but the greater, called Dionyfia, from one
of the names of Bacchus, were celebrated in the city,
about the fpring-time. Both thefe feafts were accom¬
panied with games, fpedacles, and theatrical repre-
fentations; and it was at this time the poets contend¬
ed for the prize of poetry. Thofe who were initiated
into the celebration of the feafts, reprefen ted, fome
Silenus, others Pan, others fatyrs; and in this man¬
ner appeared in public night and day, counterfeit¬
ing drunkennefs, dancing obfcenely, committing all
kinds of licentioufnefs and debauchery, and running
over the mountains and forefts, with horrible Ihrieks
and bowlings, crying out, lo Bacche. Livy informs
us, that during the Bacchanalian feafts at Rome, fuch
fhocking diforders were pradtifed under the cover of
the night, and thofe who were initiated were bound to
conceal them with an oath, attended with horrid im¬
precations, that the fenate fupprefled them firft in Rome,
and afterwards throughout all Italy.
BACCHARAC, or Bacherac. See Bacherac.
BACCHARIS, in botany, a genus of the fyngenefia
polygamia fuperflua clafs. The receptacle is naked,
. and the pappus.briftly; thecalixis imbricated and cy¬
lindrical ; the hermaphrodite flofdules are intermixed
with the female ones. The fpecies are feven, all na¬
tives of warm climates.
BA.CCHIUS, in ancient poetry, a kind of foot compo-
fed of a Ihort fyllable, and two long ones, as the word
[avarl]. It takes its name from the god Bacchus,
becaufe it frequently entered into the Hymns compofed
in his honour. The Romans called it likewife xno-
trius, tripodius, faltans.
BACHARIS, in botany. See Baccharis.
BACHELOR. See Batchelor.
BACHERAC, a town of the Palatinate of the Rhine,
fituated on the weftern fhore of that river, in 70 E.lon.
) BAD
and yo° N. lat. It is remarkable for excellent wine,
from thence called Bacherac.
BACHIAN, one of the Molucca iflands, fituated under
the equator, in 1250 E. long. It belongs to the
Dutch.
BACHU, a fea-port town of the province of Chirwan,
or Shirvan, in Perfia. It is fituated on the weftern
Ihore of the Cafpian fea, in 490 E. long, and 40°
N. lat.
BACK, in anatomy. See Back-£o»<?.
Back, in the menage. To back a horfe, or mount a
horfe a dos, in French, is to mount him bare-backed,
or without a faddle.
BkQK-bone, or Spine. See Anatomy, p. 166, 167.
Y*>&.cvi-gammon, an ingenious game played with dice and
tables, to be learned only by obfervation and prac¬
tice.
"Rxck. painting. See Painting,
BACK-y?^, in the fea-language. See Navigation.
BacK-Jlays. See Stays.
BACK-taci, in Scots law: "When a wadfetter, inftead
of poftelfing the wadfet-lands, grants a tack thereof to
the reyerfor for payment of a certain fum in name of
tack-duty, that tack is called a See Scots
Law, tit. Redeemable rights.
BACK-wom, in falconry. See Filanders.
B ACUTE, in fortification, a kind of portcullis, or gate,
made like a pit-fall with a counterpoife, and fupport-
ed by two great ftakes. It is ufually made before the
‘ corpade-guard, not far from the gate of a place.
BACULOMETRY, the art of meafuring acceifible or
inacceflible heights, by the help of one or more baculi,
ftaves, or rods. See Geometry.
BACULUS divinatorius. See Virgula Divina.
BADAJOX, a large fortified town of Spanifli Eftrema-
dura, fituated on the river Guadiana, in 70 20 W.
long, and 38° 45' N- lat.
BADALON, a town of Catalonia, in Spain, fituated
on the Mediterranean, about ten miles eaft of Barce¬
lona, in 20 E. long, and 410 15' N. lat.
BADEN, the name of feveral towns: 1. Of one about
20 miles north of Strafbourg, capital of the margra-
viate of the fiime name, and remarkable for its hot
baths. 2. Of another town of Swabia, in the Brif-
gow; where are likewife feveral hot baths. 3. Of
one in Switzerland, about 14 miles north-weft of Zu¬
rich. 4. Of one in the circle of Auftria, about 15
miles fouth of Vienna.
BADENOCH, arf inland country of Invernefslhire in
Scotland, lying between Aberdeenfhire and Lochaber.
BADENWEILLER, a town of Germany, in the Brif-
gow, near the Rhine.
BADGER, in zoology, the Englilh name of a fpecies
of Urfua. See Ursus.
Badger, in old law-books, one that was licenfedto buy
corn in one place, and carry it to another to fell,
without incurring the punilhment of an engrofler.
BADIANE, or Bandian, the feed of a tree which
grows in China, and fmells like anife-feed. The Chi-
nefe, and the Dutch in imitation of them, fometimes
ufe the badiane to give their tea an aromatic tafte.
BADIS,
BAG ( 5
BADIS, a fortrefs of Livofiia, fubjed to Ruflia, and fi-
tuated 20 miles weft of Revel, in 230 E. long, and
59° 1 s' N. lat.
BiETUS, in ichthyology. See Cottus.
BiETYLIA, anointed ftones, worfhipped by the Phoe¬
nicians, by the Greeks before the time of Cecrops,
and by other barbarous nations. They were commonly
of a black colour, and confecrated to fome god, as
Saturn, Jupiter, the Sun, <foc.
BAiZ A, a large city of Andalufia in Spain, fituated on
the river Guadalquivir, in 30 157 W. long, and 370
40' N. lat.
BAFFETAS, or Bastas, a cloth made of coarfe white
cotton-thread, which comes from the Eaft Indies.
That of Surat is the beft.
BAFFIN’/ Bay, a gulph of North America, running
north-eaft from Cape Farewell in Weft Greenland,
from 6o° N. lat. to 8o°.
BAG, in commerce, a term fignifying a certain quantity
of fome particular commodity ; as a bag of almonds,
for inftance, is about three hundred weight; of anife-
feeds, from three to four hundred,
Bags are uled in moft countries to put feveral forts
of coin in, either of gold, filver, brafs, or copper.
Bankers, and others, who .deal much in current calh,
label their bags of money, by tying a ticket or note
at the mouth of the bag, fignifying the coin therein
contained, the fum total, its weight, and of whom it
■\vas received. Tare is allowed for the bag. See
Tare and Tret.
Ba-g, among farriers, is when, in order to retrieve a
horfe’s loft appetite, they put in an ounce bf afa-foe-
tida, and as much powder of favin, into •a bag, to be
tied to the bit, keeping him bridled for two hours, Se¬
veral times a-day; as foon as the bag is taken off, he
will fall to eating. The lame bag will ferve a long
time.
BAGDAT, a ftrong town of Turky, on the frontiers
of Perlia, fituated on the river Tigris, in the province
of Iracaarabic; it was formerly capital of the Saracen
empire, and lies in 430 £. long, and'330 id N. iat.
BAGGAGE, in military affairs, denotes the cloaths,
tents, utenfils of divers forts, provifions, and other
neceffaries belonging to the army.
Before a march, the waggons with the baggage are
marlhalled according to the rank which the feveral re¬
giments bear in the army; being fometimes ordered to
follow the refpedtive columns of the army, fometimes
to follow the artillery, and fometimes to form a co¬
lumn by themfelves. The general’s baggage marches
firft; and each waggon has a flag, fhewing the regi¬
ment to which it belongs.
BAGNAGAR, the capital of Golconda, in the Hither
Peninsula of India, formerly the refidence of the kings
of Golconda, now fubjedt to the mogul; in 7)7° tjo*
E. long, and 160 3c/ N. lat.
BAGNIALUCK, a large city of Bofnia in European
Turky, fituated in i80is’' E. long, and 440 N. lat.
BAGNIO, an Italian word, fignifying a bath : We ufe
it for a houfe with convemencies for bathing, cupping,
fweating, and otherwife cleanfing the body; and fome-
Vol. I. Numb. 22. 3
13 ) B A I
times for worfe purpofes. In Turky, it is become a
general name for the prifons where the ftaves are
inclofed, it being ufual in thefe prifons to have
baths.
BAGNOLIANS, in church-hiftory, a fedt of heretics,
who in reality were Manichees, though they fomewhat
difguifed their errors. They rejeded the Old Tefta-
ment, and part of the New, held the world to be eter¬
nal, and affirmed that God did not create the foul
when he infufed it into the body.
BAGPIPE, a mufical inftrument of the wind kind,
chiefly ufedin country-places, efpecially in the North.
It confifts of two principal parts; the iirft a leathern
bag, which blows up like a foot-ball, by means of a
port-vent, or little tube, fitted to it, and flopped by
a valve : the other part confifts of three pipes or flutes;
the firft called the great pipe, or drone; the fecond,
the little one; which pafs the wind out only at the
bottom; the third has a reed, and is played on by
compreffing the bag under the arm, when full, and
opening or flopping the holes, which are eight, with
the fingers. The little pipe is ordinarily a foot long;
that played on, 13 inches; and the port-vent, fix.
BAGRE, in ichthyology, the trivial name of a fpecies
of fiiurus. See Silurus.
BAGUETTE, in architefture, a fmall round mould¬
ing, lefs than an aftragal, and fo called from the re-
femblance it bears to a ring.
BAHAMA, or Lucaya Islands, a number of iflands
lying in the Atlantic Ocean, between 21° and 270 N.
lat. and between 730 and 8i° W. long.
Thefe iflands, whereof twelve are of a confiderable
extent, take their name from Bahama, one of th$
largeft of them, lying between 78° and 8x° W. long,
and between 26° and 27° N. lat.
BAHAR, or Bar re, in commerce, weights ufed in
feveral places in the Eaft Indies.
There are two of thefe weights, one the great ba-
har, with which they weigh pepper, cloves, nutmegs,
ginger, he. and contains five hundred and fifty
pounds of Portugal, or about five huudred and twenty-
four pounds nine ounces avoirdupois weight. With
the little bahar, they weigh quickfilver, vermilion,
ivory, filk, he. It contains about four hundred and
thirty-feven pounds nine ounces avoirdupois weight.
BACHAREN, an ifland in the Perfian gulf, in 50° E.
long, and 26° N. lat.
BAHIR, a Hebrew term fignifying famous or illuftri-
ous ; but particularly ufed for a book of the Jews,
treating of the profound myfteries-of the cabbala, be¬
ing the moft ancient of the rabbinical works.
BAHUS, a citymf Sweden, capital of a province of the
fame name, and fituated about 20 miles nqrth-weft
of Gotteriburgh, in 11° E. long, and 58° id N. lat.
BAJA, a town of Italy, in the kingdom of Naples-, and
province of Lavoro, fituated in 140 4c/ E. long, and
4 0 d N. lat.
BAJADOR, a cape on the weft coaft of Africa, in 15°
W. long, and 27° N. lat.
BAIL, in Scots law : When a prifoner is fet at liberty
upon fame perion’s becoming lurety for his appeararice
J 6 0 to
B A I (51
to ftand trial under a penalty, he is faid to be admitted
to b .il. See Scots Law, tit. Crimes.
Clerk of the Bails, is an officer belonging to the
court of the King’s Bench : he files the bail-pieces
taken in that court, and attends for that purpofe.
BAIL, or Bale, in the fea-language. The feamen
call throwing the water by hand, out of the (hip or
boat’s-hold, bailing. They alfo call thofe hoops that
bear up the tilt of a boat, its bails.
BAILIAGE, or Bailiwick. See Bailiwick.
Bailiage, an ancient duty paid to the city of
London, for all goods brought into, or carried out
of, the port.
BAILIE, in Scots law, a judge anciently appointed by
the king over fuch lands not erected into a regality as
happened to fall to the crown by forfeiture or other-
wife, now aboliffied. It is alfo the name of a magi-
ftrate in royal boroughs, and of the judge appointed
by a baron over lands erefted into a barony. See
Scots Law, tit. Inferior judges. See.
BAILIFF, an officer appointed for the adminiftration of
juftice withing a certain dill rift, called a bailiwick.
BAiLiFFs-irma'#/, fuch as are appointed by the ffieriff,
to go up and down the country, to ferve writs and
warrants, fummon country-courts, feffions, affizes, and
the like.
Bailiffs of franch'sfes, thofe appointed by every lord
within his liberty to do fuch offices tkerein as the
bailiff-errant does at large in the country.
There are alfo bailiffs of forefts, and bailiffs of ma¬
nors, who direft hulbandry, fell trees, gather rents,
pay quit-rents, <foc.
JErfArr-BAiLiFF, an officer appointed in all port-towns,
for the fearching of (hips, gathering the toll for ancho¬
rage, <bc. and arrefting perfons for debt, be. on the
water.
BAILIWICK, that liberty which is exempted from the
ffieriff of the county; over which liberty the lord
thereof appoints his own bailiff, with the like power
within his precinft, as an under-ffieriff exercifes under
the ffieriff of the county: Or it lignifies the precinft
of a bailiff, or the place within which his jurifdiftion
is terminated. ,°-
BAILO, thus they ftyle at Conllantinople the ambaffa-
dor of the republic of Venice, who refides at the
Porte. This minifter, befides his political charge, afts
there the part of a conful of Venice.
BAIOCAO, a copper-coin, current at Rome, and
throughout the whole ftate of the church, ten of
which make a julio, and an hundred a Roman crown.
BAIRAM, in the Mahometan cuftoms, a yearly feftival
of the Turks, which they keep after the fall of Ra¬
mazan.
The Mahometans have two bairams, the great and
the little. The little bairam holds for three days,
and is feventy days after the firft, which follows im¬
mediately the ramazan. During the bairam, the peo¬
ple leave their work for three days, make prefents to
one another, and fpend the time with great manifefta-
tions of joy. If the day after ramazan ffiould be fo
cloudy as to prevent the fight of the new moon, the
4 ) B A L
bairam is put off to the next day, when it is kept, e-
ven if the moon ffiould Hill be obfeured; when they
celebrate this feaft, after numerous ceremonies, or ra¬
ther ftrange mimickries, in their mofque, it is conclu¬
ded with a folemn prayer againll the infidels, to ex¬
tirpate Chriftian princes, or to arm them againlt one
another, that they may have an opportunity to extend
the borders of their law.
BAIT, in fiffiing. See Fishing.
BAITING, in falconry, is when a hawk flutters with her
wings, either from perch or fill, as if it were driving
to get away.
BAJULUS, an ancient officer in the court of the Greek
. emperors. There were feveral degrees 01 bajuli, as
the grand bajulus, who was preceptor to the emperor;
and the fimple bajuli, who were iub-preceptors.
BAKAL, a great lake in the middle of Siberia, on the
road from Mufcovy to China.
BAKER, a perfon whofe occupation or bufinefs it is to
bake bread. See Baking.
BAKEWELL, a large market town of Derbyffiire, about
150 miles from London. It is a good market for lead.
BAKING, the art of preparing bread, or reducing meals
of any kind, whether fimple or compound, into bread.
The various forms of baking among us may be re¬
duced into two, the one for leavened, the other for
unleavened bread; for the firll, the chief is manchet-
baking, the procefs whereof is as follows.
The meal, ground and boulted, is put into a trough,
and to every buffiel are poured in about three pints of
warm ale, with barm and fait to feafon it: this is
kneaded well together with the hands through the
brake ; or for want thereof, with the feet, through a
cloth ; after which, having lain an hour to fwell, it is
moulded into manchets, which fcorched in the middle,
and pricked at top, to give room to rife, are baked in
the oven by a gentle fire.
For the fecond, fometimes called cheat-bread ba¬
king, it is thus: fome leaven (faved from a former
batch) filled with fait, laid up to four, and at length
diffolved in water, is drained through a cloth into a
hole made in the middle of the heap of meal in the
trough; then it is worked with fome of the flour into
a moderate confidence; this is covered up with meal,
where it lies all night, and in the morning the whole
heap is dirred up, and mixed with a little warm wa¬
ter, barm, and fait, by which it is feafoned, foftened,
and brought to an even leaven: it is then kneaded,
moulded, and baked, as before.
JSa.kuig of porcelain. See Porcelain.
BALA, in geography, a market-town of Marionethffiire,
about 16 miles fouth from Denbigh, in 30 40' W. long,
and 520 55* N. lat.
BALALNA, or whale, in zoology, a genus of the mam¬
malia clafs, belonging to the order of cete. The cha-
rafters of this genus are thefe : The balaena, in place
of teeth, has a horny plate in the upper jaw, and a
double fidula or pipe for throwing out water. The
fpecies are four; viz. 1. The mydicetus, which has
many turnings and windings in its nodrils, and has no
fin on the back. This is the larged of ail animals ; it is
often
/2.
jBexdy
*3.
/4-
Bezants
tS-
Biltets
Bqbdttce
Bahhed Cross
w.
Bat trusts Bams
Bends
JDtzv&s *. ^ Ym*ffer
Barr
B
B A L (5
often 100 feet long : the head is -very large in propor¬
tion to the body , and the lower jaw is much wider
than the upper one: the ears are fituated below the
eyes. In the belly, it has two dugs a little before the
vulva ; there are two large fins on the brealt; and the
tail is forked. The myfticetus contains fuch a large
quantity of fat, that a fhip is often loaded with the
blubber obtained from a Angle filh. It is a native of
the Greenland Ocean. It feeds chiefly upon the me-
dufa, a fmall fea-infe£t. See Medusa. The fub
ftance called whale-bone is got from the upper lip, and
towards the throat of this and all the other fpecies of
whales. See Plate LI. fig. i. For the manner of taking
wfiales, fee Whale-fishery. 2. The phyfalus, has
a double pipe in the middle of the head, and a thick
fat fin on the lower part of the back, befides the two
fins on the bread; it has no teeth; and the belly is
fmooth. The phyfalus inhabits the European and
American oceans: it feeds upon herrings and other
fmall fifli. 3. The boops has a double pipe in its
fnout, three fins like the former, and a hard horny
ridge on its back. The belly is full of longitudinal
folds or rugse. It frequents the northern ocean. 4.
The mufculus has a double pipe in its front, and
three fins; the under jaw is much wider than the up¬
per one. It frequents the Scotch coafts, and feeds
upon herrings —Linnaeus makes the phyfeter and del-
phinus, which are ranked among the whales by fome
writers, two diftinft genera. See Physeter and
Delphinus.
BALAGN A, a town of Mufcovy, in the province of
Novogorod, fituated on the river Wolga, in 450 E.
long, and 56° go' N. lat.
BALAMBUAN, a fea-port town of the ifle of Java, in
Alia, which gives name to the channel called the
S reights of Balambnan.
BAL VM-PULLI, in botany. SeeTamarindus.
BALANCE, or Balance See Ballance.
B L ANGI AR, the capital city of Tartary, north of
the Cafpian fea.
B lL'\NUS, in zoology, the trivial name of a fpecies of
lepas. SccLepas.
Balanus, in anatomy, a term fometimes ufed for the
glans penis, as well as for the clitoris.
Balanus, in< pharmacy, denotes a fuppofitory. See
Supposito R Y.
BALASS or Ballas, the name of a kind of ruby.
See Ruby.
B ALAUSTI A. in botany See Punica.
BALBASTRO. a city of Arragon, in Spain, fituated
upon the river Sinca, fifty miles north-eaft of Sara-
gofla. •
B ALBEC, a town of Afiatic Turky, fituated at the foot
of mount Libanus, in 370 3c/E. long, and 33°N. lat.
BALCHA, a city of Ufbbec Tartary, fituated on the
frontiers of Perfia, in 65° 20 E.long. and 370 N. lat.
BALCONY, in architecture, a projefture in the front of
a houfe, or other building, fupported by pillars or
confoles, and encompafled with a baluftrade.
BALDACHIN, or BaldAqu i n, in architecture, a build-
^ ing in form of a canopy, fupported by pillars, and fre-
5 ) BAL
quently ufed as a covering to infulated altars. Some
alfo ufe the term baldachin for the (hell over a door.
BALDIVIA, or Valdivia, a fea-port town of Chili,
in South America, fituated on the South Sea, in 8o°
W. long, and 40° S. lat.
BALDNESS, a defedt of hair, owing to the want of a
fufficient fupply of nutricious juice.
BALDOC, a market-town in Hertfordlhire, about 38
miles north of London, in 15' W. long, and ji° 55'
N. lat.
BALE, in commerce : Any goods packed up in cloth, and
corded round very tight, in order to keep them from
breaking, or preferve them from the weather, is called
a bale.
A bale of cotton yarn is from three to four hundred
weight; of raw filk, is from one to four hundred ; of
lockram ordowlafs, either three, three and a halt, or
four pieces
Bale-goods, among the Engliih merchants, are all
fuch as are imported or exported in bales; but the
French give that name to certain hard-warts, and
other fort of merchandize, which come to Pans, and
are commonly made by bad workmen, of indifferent
materials.
BALI, an ifland in the Eaft Indies, fituated in 1140 E.
long, and 70 3c/ S. lat. This ifland, and the eafl:
end of the ifland of Java, form a ftre-ght about a mile
over, of extremely difficult paflage.
BALISORE, a fmall fea port of the Hither India, fitu¬
ated on the north-weft part of the bay of Bengal,
in 85° 1 5/ E. long., and 210 N. lat
BALISTA, orBALLisxA. SccBallista.
BALISTES, in ichthyology, a genus of fifties belong¬
ing to the order of amphibia nantes. The characters
are thefe : The head is flat; there are eight teeth in
each fide, and the two anterior ones are longeft ; in
the place of gills, the baliftes has an aperture imme-
diaiely above the peCtoral fins; the body is flat, the
feales are joined together by the fltin, and the belly is
keeled. The fpecies of this genus are eight; viz. the
baliftes monoceros, whofe htad-fin confifts of but one
ray, and the tail rays are carinated. It is called the
Unicorn-fijb by Catefby, and is found in the Afiatic
and American feas. 2. The hifpidus, whofe’head-fin
is uniradiated ; and there is a round black fpot in the
tail-fin. - The body is rough and briftly towards the
tail. The fpine or horn is fituated between the eyes;
the fnout is fubulated; and inftead of a belly-fin, it
has a jagged ftiarp fpine. This fpecies is a native of
Carolina. 3. The tomentofus, whofe head-fin is bi-
radiated, and the body of it towards the hind-part is
hairy. It is a native of America. 4. The papillofus,
has a biradiated back-fin, and a papillous body. 5.
The verrucofus, has a triradiated back-fia; and the
tail is full of little warts. In place of a belly-fin this
fpecies has a large,, thick, warty ray. It has 25 fmall
reverfed (harpfpines at the fide of the tail, difpofed in
four rows. It is a native of India. 6. The aculeatus has
a triradiated back-fin; and the fpines of the tail lean
upon each other. It is alfo a native of India. 7. The
vetula, has a triradiated back-fin ; the belly-fin is longi¬
tudinal,
B A L (5
tudinal, and fomewhat carinated; and the tail-finis
forked. It is found at Afcenfion Ifiand. 8. The tin-
gens, has a triradiated back-fin ; there are three folds
on each fide of the head, and the tail-fin is forked.
This fpecies is likewife found at Afcenfion Ifland.
BALIVO amo'vendo, in law, was a writ for removing a
bailiff from his office, for want of having fufficient
land in his bailiwick to anfwer the king and his peo¬
ple, according to the ftatute of Weftminfler, 2 reg.
Orig. 78.
Bx\LK, among builders, is fometimes ufed for the fum-
mer beam of a houfe ; fometimes for the poles and
rafters, which fupport the roofs of barns, <bc.; and
fometimes for the beams ufed in making fea-holds.
Balk, in agriculture, denotes a ridge, or bank between
two furrows.
BALKE, or Balkhe, a city of Afia, in the Ufbec
Tartary, fituated upon the river Dilhas, in 68° E. Ion.
and 36° 40' N. lat.
BALL, in a general fenfe, a fpherical and round body,
whether it be fo naturally, or turned into that figure
by the hand of an artifl:: Thus we fay, a tennis-ball,
foot-ball, cotton-ball, <bc.
Ball, in the military art, comprehends all forts of bul¬
lets for fire-arms, from the cannon to the piftol. See
Gunnery.
Cannon-balls are cf iron; mufquet-balls, piflol-balls,
i&c. are of lead. The experiment has been tried of iron
balls for piftols and fufees, but they are juftly rejed-
ed, not only on account of their lightnefs, which pre¬
vents then from flying ftrait, but becaufe they are apt
to furrow the barrel.
Ball and focket is an inftrument made of brafs, with
a perpetual fcrew, fo as to move horizontally, verti¬
cally, and obliquelyand is generally ufed for the ma¬
naging of furveying, and altronomical inftruments.
Ball of a pendulum, the fame with bob. See Bob.
Ball, among printers. See Printing.
jP^-Ball, the Engliffi name of the lycoperdon. See
Lycoperdgn.
BALLAD, or Ballet, a kingof fong, adapted to the
- capacity of the lower clafs of people; who, being
mightily taken with this fpecies of poetry, are thereby
not a little influenced in the conduit of their lives.
Hence we find, that feditious and defigning men never
fail to fpread ballads among the people, with a view
to gain them over to their fide.
BALLANCE, or Balance, in mechanics, one of the
Ample powers, which ferves to find out the equality or
difference of weight in heavy bodies. See Mecha¬
nics.
Hydrcjlatical Ballance. See Hydrostatics.
Ballance of trade, in commerce, the equality between
the value of the commodities bought of foreigners, and
the value of the native produitions tranfported into o-
ther nations. See Commerce.
Ballance of a clock, or ’watch. See Clock and
Watch making.
Ballance yf/?’. See Squalus.
BALL.-iNCER, in the hiftory of infeib, a ftyle, or ob¬
long body, ending in a protuberance or head, found
<5 ) B A L
under each wing of the two-winged flies; thefe ferve
to poife the body of the fly.
BALLAST, a quantity of Itones, gravel, or fand, laid
in a ffiip’s hold, to make her fink to a certain depth
into the water, and fail upright. The ballaft is fome¬
times one quarter, one third, or one half, according
to the difference of the bulk of the fliip. Flat vef-
fels require the moft ballad. Ships are faid to be in
ballad, when they have no other loading. Maders of
veliels are obliged to declare the quantity of ballad
they bear, and to unload it at certain places. They
are prohibited unloading their ballad in havens, roads,
&c. the negledt of which has ruined many excellent
ports.
BALLASTAGE, or Lastage. See Lastage.
BALLERUS, in ichthyology, the trivial name of a
fpecies of cyprinus. See Cyprinus.
BALLET. See Ballad.
BALLIAGE, or Bailiage. See Bailiage.
BALLICONNEL, a town of Ireland, about 11 miles
north-ead of Cavan, 70 50' W. long. 540 6' N. lat.
BALLIMORE, a town of Leinder in Ireland, fur-
rounded entirely with a marffi.
BALLISHANNON, a large town of the county of
' Donnegal, and province of Ulder in Ireland, fituated
about ten miles fouth of the town of Dbnnegal, in
8° 30' W. long, and 540 25' N. lat.
BALLISTA, in antiquity, a military machine ufed by
the ancients in befieging cities, to throw large dones,
darts, and javelins.
It refembled our crofs bows, though much larger
and fuperior in force.
From this engine, dones of a fize not lefs than
mill-dones, were thrown with fo much violence, as to
dafli whole houfes in pieces at a blow. It is defcribed
thus: A round iron cylinder was fadened between two
planks, from which reached a hollow fquare beam,
placed crofs-wife, and fadened with cords, to which
were added fcrews; at one end of this dood the in-
gineer, who put a wooden ffiaft with a big head into
the cavity of the beam; this done, two men bent the
engine by drawing fome wheels : When the top of the
head was drawn to the outmod end of the cords, the
ftiaft was driven out of the ballida, fcc.
BALLISTES, in ichthyology. SccBalistes.
BALLOON, or Ballon, in a general fenfe, fignifies
any fpherical hollow body, of whatever matter it be
compofed, or for whatever purpofes it be defigned.
Thus, with chemids, balloon denotes a round (hort-
necked veffel, ufed to receive what is diddled by means
of fire ; in architedlure, a round globe on tire top of a
pillar; and among engineers, a kind of bomb made of
pade-boafd, and.played off in fire-works, either in the
air or on the water, in imitation of a real bomb.
Balloon, in the French paper trade, is a term for a
quantity of paper, containing 24 reams. It is alfo
the name of a fort of brigantine ufed in the kingaom
of Siam.
Ballon, in geography, a town of France, in the dio-
cefe of Mans, upon the banks of the Orne, 50'' E.lon,
48° xo' N. lat.
BALLOTA,
B A L (
EALLOTA, in botany, a genus of the didynamta gym-
nofpefmia clafs. The calix has four teeth ; the fupe-
rior lip of the corolla is concave and crenated. There
are four fpecies, viz. the nigra, or {linking hore-
hound, a native of Britain ; the alba and lanata, both
natives- of Europe; and the fuaveolens, a native of A-
merica.
BALLOTADE, in the menage, the leap of a horfe be¬
tween two pillars, or upon a Hraighrline, made with
juftnefs of time, with the aid of the hand, and the
calves of the legs; and in fuch a manner, that when
his fore-feet are in the air, he (hews nothing but the
(hoes of his hinder-feet without yerking out.
BALLS, or Ballets, in heraldry, a frequent bearing
in coats of arms, ufually denominated according to
their colours, bezants, plates, hurts, <foc. See Be¬
zants.
BALLUSTER, a fmall kind of pillar ufed for ballu-
ftrades. See Architecture.
BALLUST RADE, a feries or row of balluflers, join¬
ed by a rail; ferving as well for a reft to the elbows,
as for a fence or inclofure to balconies, altars, ftair-
eafes, <bc. S?e Architecture.
BALM, in botany. See Melissa.
Balm, or Balsam. See Balsam.
BALNEUM, a term ufcd by chemifts to fignify a veffel
filled with fome matter, as fand, water, or the like,
in which another is placed that requires a more gentle
heat than the naked fire. Thus balneum arenefum,
called alfo balneum Jiccion, and fand-heat, is when
the cucurbit is placed in fand, in allies, or filings of
fteel. Balneum maria, or maris, is when the vefiel,
containing the ingredients to be diftilled, Jsc. is put in¬
to a veflel of water, which is made to boil; fo that no
greater heat than that of boiling water can be commu¬
nicated to the fubftance to be treated. And balneum
vaporis, or vaporarium, is, when two veflels are dif-
pofed in fuch a manner, that the vapour, raifed from
the water contained in the lower, heats the matter
contained in the upper.
BALOTADE, or Ballotade. See Ballotade.
BALOWA, a city of Alia, in the kingdom of De¬
can.
BALSAM, or Native Balsam, an oily, refinous, li¬
quid fubftance, flowing either fpontaneoufly, or by
means of incifion, from certain plants. There are a
great variety of balfams, generally denominated from
the fubftances from which they are obtained. See
Chemistry, Of ref ns and balfams.
BALSAMICS, in pharmacy, foftening, reftoring, heal¬
ing and cleanfing medicines, of a gentle attenuating
nature.
Balfamics may be ufed, both internally and ex¬
ternally, in all difeafes of the head, nerves, fto-
mach, <bc.
BALSAMIN A, in botany, the trivial name of a fpecies
of impatiens. See Impatiens.
BALSAMITA, in botany, a fynonime of a fpecies of
xeranthemum. See Xeranthemum.
BALSARA, in geography, the fame with Baflbra. See
Bassora.
Voa. I. No. 22.
T.7 ) BAN
BALTIC fea, that lying between Sweden on the north,
and Germany and Livonia on the fouth.
BALTIMORE, a town of the county of Corke, and
province of Munfter, in Ireland, {ituated about five
miles north of Cape Clear, in 90 15' W. long, and
510 15' N. lat.
BALZANE. See Whttefoot.
BAMBERG, a city of Franconia, in Germany, io°
E. long, and 50° 15' N lat.
The bilhop of Bamberg is fovereign of the city and
diftrid: round it, for fixty miles in length, and forty
in breadth.
BAMBOE, in botany, the trivial name of a fpecies of
arundo. See Arum do.
BAMFF, or Banff, a town of Scotland, which gives
name to a county, lying between Aberdeenfhire and
Murray, along the fouthern bank of the river Spey.
The town is lituated at the mouth of the river Do-
vern.
BAMPTON, a market-town of Oxfordlhire, fituated
on the river Ills, about ten miles fouth- weft of Oxford.,
i° 35' W. long, and yi° 40' N.-iat.
Bampton is alio the name of a market-town in Devon-
{hire, twenty miles north of Exeter, in 30 40' W.
long, and 51° 5' N. lat.
BAN, or Bann. See Bann.
Ban, in commerce, a fort of fmooth, fine muflin, which
the Englifti import from the E. Indies. The piece
is almoft a yard broad, and runs about twenty yards
and a half.
BANBURY, a large borough-town in Oxfordihire,
twenty miles north of Oxford, in i° 20 W. long,
and 520 N. lat.
BANC, or Ben.ch, in lav/, denotes a tribunal, or judge¬
ment-feat : Hence, king’s-banc is the fame with the
court of king’s-bench, and common banc with that of
common pleas. See King’s Bench and Common
Pleas.
BANCA, an ifland of the E. Indies, feparated from the
fouth-eaft part of that of Sumatra by a very narrow
channel, in 1050 E. long, and 30 S. lat.
BANCALIS, a fea-port town on the eaft coaft of Su¬
matra, in 990 E. long, and 2° N. lat. - It is a Dutch
fettlement.
BANCOCK, a city of the kingdom of Siam, in ioi°
E. long, and 130 30' N. lat.
BAND, in a general fenfe, fome fmall, narrow liga¬
ment, wherewith any thing is bound, tied, or faftened.
Band, in architedlure, a general name for any flat, low
member, or moulding, that is broad, but not very
deep.
Band offoldiers, in military affairs, thofe who fight
under the fame flag or enfign.
Trained Bands. See Trained
Band of penfoners are a company of 120 gentlemen,
who receive a yearly allowance of a hundred pounds
for attending on his majefty on folemn occafions.
Band is alfo the denomination of a military order in
Spain, inftituted by Alphonfus XI. king of Caftile,
for the younger fons of the nobility; who, before
their admiflion, muft ferve ten years, at leaft, either
t 6 P in
3
BAN
in the army, or at court; and are bound to take
up arms for the catholic faith againft the infidels.
Band, in furgefy, a fillet, fwath, or piece of linen
cloth, wherewith either to cover or fuiround certain
parts that Hand in need of affiftance ; and is, in this
lenfe, the fame with what is otherwife called a roller.
BANDA, or Lantor, the chief of the Banda iflands
in the E. Indies, where nutmegs grow, in 128° E.
long, and 40 3c/ S. lat.
BANDAGE, in furgery, a fillet, roller, or fwath, u-
fed in dreiling and binding up wounds, reftraining
dangerous hssmorrhages, and in joining fractured and
difiocated bones. See Surgery.
BANDALEER, or Bandeleer, in military affairs,
a large leathern belt, thrown over the right ihouldtr,
and hanging under the left arm ; worn by the ancient
niufqueteers, both for the fuflaining of their fire-arms,
and for tlje carriage of their mufquet-charges, which
being put up in tittle wooden cafes, coated with lea¬
ther, were hung, to' the number of twelve, to each
bandeleer.
BANDELET, or Bandlet, in archite&ure, any lit¬
tle band, or flat moulding, as that which crowns the
Doric architrave.
BANDER-ABASSI, in geography. See the article
Gombron.
BANDER-CONGO, a fea-port town on the eaflern
fide of the Perfian gulf: E. long. 54° 5c/, and N.
lat. 270.
BANDERET, a general, or one of the commanders in
chief of the forces.
This appellation is given to the principal command¬
ers of the troops of the canton of Bern in Switzer¬
land, where there are four banderets, who command
all the forces of that canton.
BANDEROLE, a little flag, in form of a guidon, ex¬
tended more in length than breadth, ufed to be hung
out on the marts of veffels,
BANDITTI, a term peculiarly denoting companies of
highwaymen, common in Italy and France ; butfome-
times.alfo ufed. in a more general fenfe, for robbers,
pirates, out-lawed perfons, ruffians, fyc.
BANDO, the fame with Afmer. See Asmer.
BANDORA, the capital of the irtand of Salfet, or Co-
norin, on the weft coaft of the Hither India : E. long.
720 30 , and N. lat. 190.
Ban dor. a is alfo the name of an ancient mufical inftru-
ment, with firings, refembling a lute. See Lute.
BANGLE ears, an iinperfe&ion in a horfe, remedied
in the following manner. Place his ears in fuch a
manner as you would have them ftand; bind them with
two little boards fo fart that they cannot ftir, and
then clip away all the empty wrinkled (kin clofe by
the head.
BANDY-LEGGED perfons are fuch whofe feet are
diflorted, turning either inward or out-ward on either
fide. '
BANGOR, a city ofCarnarvonlhire, in North Wales:
'Yf.. long. 4° X5/, and N. lat. 53° 2o\
It is a bifhop’s.fee, and fituated on the fea-fide, a-
bout 30 miles weft of StALph.
BAN
BANGUE, or Bend. See Bend.
BANIALUCH, or Bagnaluch, a city of European
Turky, the capital of Bofnia, upon the frontiers of
Dalmatia, near the river Setina : E. long. 18° 201
N. lat. 440 20 .
BANIAN A, a city of India, upon the road from Surat
to Agra. _ _
BANIANS, a religious fe£t in the empire of the Mo¬
gul, wiio believe a metempfyehofis; and will therefore
eat no living creature, nor kill even noxious animals ;
but endeavour to releafe them, when in the hands of
others.
BAN JAR, a river in the irtand of Borneo, in the mouth
of which is a floating ifland, where the Ealt-India
company have a factory.
BANILLA, or Vanilla. See Vanilla.
BANISHMENT, a kind of punifhment, whereby the
guilty perfon is obliged to leave the realm.
BANK, in commerce, a common repofitory, where
many perfons agree to keep their money, to be always
ready at their call or diredion; or certain focieties or
communities, who take the charge of other peoples
money, either to improve it, or to keep it fecure.
There are banks of various kinds, and different in
the nature of their conftitutions and eftabliftiments :
Some are militated wholly on the public account, and
put under the direction of the magiftrates, as the fa¬
mous bank of Amllerdam, where the money depoiited
therein fhall be always kept for the ufe of the proprie¬
tors, and fliall never be let out for profit or advan¬
tage.
Payments made by alfignments upon this bank, are
valued from 3 to 6 per cent above the payment of the
money in fpecie, arifing from an opinion that the pro¬
prietors entertain of the equity of its adminirtration ;
For judging themfelves fecure, that their money lies
always ready at hand, they feldom draw out large
fums, but make their mutual payments by transferring
the fums from one man’s account to another.
A fecond fort of bank, is fuch as confills of a com¬
pany of monied men, who being duly eftabfifhed, and
incorporated by the laws of their country, agree to de-
pofite a considerable fund, or joint rtock, to be em¬
ployed for the ufe of the fociety ; as lending money
upon good fecurity, buying and felling bullion, gold
and filver, difeounting bills of exchange, ebc.
A third fort, is the banks of private men, or part-
nerfliips, who deal in the fame way as the former, up¬
on their own Single ilock or credit. There are public
banks eftabliftied in moft of the trading cities of Eu¬
rope, as in Venice, London, Paris, Amfterdam,
Hamburgh, &c. The bank of Venice is the moft an¬
cient. It is eftablilhed by a folemn edidt of the com¬
monwealth, which enadls, That all payments of whole-
fale merchandife,. and letters of exchange, Shall be in
bank-notes ; that all debtors Shall be obliged to carry
their money to the bank, and all creditors receive their
money from the bank ; fo that payments are perform¬
ed by a Simple transfer from the one perfon to the o-
ther. In matters of retail, effective payments are
fometimes made, which, da not diminish,. but rather
augment.
( 5i3 )
BAN
augment the flock, by reafon of the liberty of with¬
drawing their money at pleafure, <&c.,
BANKAFALET, a game at cards, which being cut in¬
to as many heaps as there are players, every man lays
as much money on his own card as he pleafes ; and the
dealer wins or loofes as many as his card is fuperior or
inferior to thofe of the other gameflers.
The bell card is the ace of diamonds ; the next to
it, the ace of hearts ; then the ace of clubs ; and, lad-
ly, the ace of fpades : And fo of the reft of thefe fuits
in order, according to their degree.
The cheat lies in fecuring an ace, or any other fure
winning card ; which are iomehow marked, that the
fharper may know them.
BANKER, a perfon who traffics and negociates in mo¬
ney ; who receives and remits money from place to
place by commiffion from correfpondents, or by means
of bills or letters of exchange.
BANKISH, a province of the Mogul’s dominions, in
the north part of the Hither India, lying fouth weft of
the province of Calfimere.
Commijffijtt of BANKRUPTCY. See Commission.
BANN, or Ban, in the feudal law, a folemn proclama¬
tion or publication of any thing. Hence the cuflom
of aflcing, or bans, before marriage. See Mar¬
riage.
Bann, in military affairs, a proclamation made in the
army by beat of drum, found of trumpet, <bc. re¬
quiring the flrift obfervance of difcipline, either for
the declaring a new officer, or punifhing an offender.
Bann of the empire, an imperial profcnption, being a
judicial punifhment, wherewith fuch as are acceflary
to difturbing the public peace are judged unworthy of
the immunities and protection of the empire, and are
out-lawed or banifhed, <bc.
BANNAGHER, a town of Ireland, in the king’s
county, and province of Leinfter, lituated on the river
Shannon, 8° W. long, and 530 io' N. lat.
BANNER denoted-either a fquare flag, or the principal
ftandard belonging to a prince.
BANNERET, an ancient order of knights, or feudal
lords, who, poflefling feveral large fees, led their vaf-
fals to battle under their own flag, when fummoned
thereto by the king.
BANNISTERIA, in botany, a genus of the decandria
trigynia clafs. The calix is divided into 5 parts, with
a neCtarium at the bafe of each ; the petals are round-
ifh and unguiculated ; the capfyle contains 3 membra¬
naceous alated feeds. The fpecies are 7, all natives
of America.
BANNIMUS, the form of expulfion of any member
from the univerfity of Oxford, by affixing the fen-
tence up in fome public place,, as a denunciation
of it.
BANNOCK, a kind of oat-cake, baked in the embers,
or on a Rone placed before the fire : It is common in
the northern parts of this kingdom.
BANNUM, in law, fignifies the utmoft bounds of a ma¬
nor or town.
BANQUET, a feaft or entertainment, where people
BAP
regale themfelves with pleafant foods, or fruits. It
fignifies alfo a little bank, or raifed way.
Banqjuet, in the menage, thatfmall part of the branch
of a bridle that is under the eye, which being rounded
like a fmall rod, gathers and joins the extremities of
the bitt to the branch, and that in fuch a manner, that
the banquet is not feen, but covered by the cope, or
that part of the bitt that is next the branch.
Banquet-//'/?,?, an imaginary line drawn, in making a;
bitt, along the banquet, and prolonged up or down,
to adjuft the defigned force or weaknefs of the branch,
in order to make it ItiflT or eafy.
Banqjuet, or Banquette, in fortification, a little
foot-bank, or elevation of earth, forming a path,
which runs along the infide of a parapet, upon which
the mufqueteers get up, in order to difcover the coun-
terfcarp, or to fire on the enemy in the moat, or in
the covert-way.
BANSTICLE, in ichthyology. See Gasterosteus.
BANTAM, the capital of a large kingdom, and a port-
town of great trade, fituated on the north-weft coafl
of the ifland of Java, in ioj° E. long, and 6° 30'
S. lat.
Bantam-work, a kind of painted or carved work, re-
fembling that of Japan, only more gaudy.
BANTON, in geography, one of the Philippine iflands.
BANTRY, a town of Ireland, fituated on a bay of the
fame name, in the county of Cork, and province of
Munfler, in 90 20' W. long, and ji° N. lat.
BANZA, a city of Africa, the capital of the kingdom
of Congo.
BAPAUME, a fortified town of the French Nether¬
lands, about 12 miles fouth-eaft of Arras, in 30 E.
long, and yo°io' N. lat.
BAPTISM, in matters of religion, a facrament, by
which a perfon is initiated into the Chriftian church.
See Religion.
Baptism, in the fea-language, a ceremony in long voyages
on board merchant-fhips, praftifed both on perfons and
vefleis who pafs the tropic or line for the firfl time.
The baptizing the veflel is Ample, and confifts only in
wafhing them throughout with fea-water ; that of the
paflengers is more myfterious. The oldeft of the crew,
that has paft the tropic or. line, comes with his face
blacked, a grotefque cap on his head, and fome fea-
book in his hand, followed by the reft of the fea-men
drefled like himfelf, each having fome kitchen-utenfii
in his hand, with drums beating. He places himfelf
on a feat on the deck, at the foot of the main mart.
At the tribunal of this mock magillrate, each pafl’en-
ger not yet initiated, fwears he will take care the
fame ceremony be obferved, whenever he is in the like
circumftances : Then by giving a little money by way
of gratification, he. is difcharged with a httle fprinkling
of water, otherwife he is heartily drenched with ftreams
of water poured upon him- and the fliip-boys are in-
clofed in a cage, and ducked at difcretion.
The feamen, on the baptizing a fhip, pretend to a
right of cutting oflf the beak-head, unlefs redeemed by
the captain.
( 519 )
BAP.-
BAR ( 520 ) BA R
BAPTISMAL, fomething belonging to baptifm; thus,
we fay, baptifrnal vow, fonts, prcf nts, See.
BAPTISTS, in church-hiftory, the name by which the
Anabaptifts love to diftinguiih themfelves. See Ana¬
baptist?.,
BAPTISTERY, in ecclefiaftical writers, a place in which
the ceremony of baptifm is performed. In the an¬
cient church, it was one of the exedrte, or buildings,
diftindt from the church itfelf, and confided of a porch
or anti-room, where the perfons to be baptized made
their confeflion of faith ; and an inner room where the
ceremony of baptifm was performed.
BAR, in a general fenfe, denotes a llender piece of wood,
or iron, for keeping things clofe together.
Bar, in courts of juftice, an inclofure made with a ftrong
partition of timber, where the council are placed to
plead caufes. It is alfo applied to the benches where
the lawyers or advocates are feated, becaufe anciently
there was a bar to feparate the pleaders from the at¬
torneys and others. Hence our lawyers, who are
called to the bar, or licenfed to plead, are termed ba-
rillers, an appellation equivalent to licentiate in other
countries.
Bar, in law, a plea of a defendant, which is faid to be
fufficient to deftroy the plaintiff’s adtion.
Bar, in heraldry, an ordinary in form of the fefs, but
much lefs.
It differs from the fefs only in its narrownefs; and
in this, that the bar may be placed in any part of the
field, whereas the fefs is confined to a fingle place.
See Plate LI. fig. 4.
Bar-gemel, that is a double bar, called by the French
jumelles, and by the Latin writers jugaria fafciola,
and juftit'ue bijuges, is a diminutive of the fefs. See
Plate LI. fig. 5.
Bar, in the menage, the higheft part of that place of a
horfe’s mouth, fituated between the grinders and tulhes ;
fo that the part of the mouth which lies under and
at the fide of the bars, retains the name of the gum.
A horfe with fenfible bars has a fine light mouth, with
an even and firm appui. SeeAppui.
To Bar a vein, in farriery, is an operation perform¬
ed upon the veins of the legs of a horfe and other
parts, with intent to flop the malignant humours. It
is done by opening the fkin above it, difengaging it,
and tying it both above and below, and ftriking be¬
tween the two ligatures.
Bar, in mufic, aftroke drawn perpendicularly acrofs the
lines of a piece of mufic, including between each two
a certain quantity or meafure of time, which is vari¬
ous as the time of the mufic is either triple or com¬
mon. In common time, between each two bars is in¬
cluded the meafure of four crotchets ; in triple, three.
The principal ufe of bars is to regulate the beating of
time, in a concert. See’TiME and Measure.
Bar, in hydrography, denotes a bank of fand, or other
matter, whereby the mouth of a river is in a manner
choaked up.
The term bar is alfo ufed for the ftrong beam
wherewith the entrance of an harbour is fecured: This
is.more commonly called boom.
Bar, Barra, in commerce. See Barra.
Bar, or Bar-le-duc, in geography, a duchy belong¬
ing to France, lying north-weft of Lorrain, on both
fides the river Maefe, whereof Bar-le-duc is the prin¬
cipal town ; in 50 \e E. long, and 48° 4c/ N. lat.
Bar is alfo a town of Podolia, in Poland; fituated in
28° E. long, and 48° 2br N. lat.
Bar is alfo the name of two towns in France; the one
in Champaign, upon the Aube; and the other in Bur¬
gundy, upon the Seine.
BARABINSKOI, a country of Tartary, tributary to the
Mufcovites.
BAR-MASTER, among miners, the perfon who keeps
the gage, or dilh, for meafuring the ore.
BAR-SHOT. See Shot.
BARACKS, or Barracks. See Barracks.
BARACOA, a town on the north-eall part of the ifland
of Cuba in North America, in 76° W. long, and 210
N. lat.
BARALIPTON, among logicians, a term denoting the
fitft indiredl mode of the firft figure of fyllogifm. A
fyllogifm in baralipton, is when the two firft propofi-
tions are general, and the third particular, the middle
term being the fubjeft in the firft propofition, and the
predicate in the fecond.
BAR ALLOTS, in church-hiftory, a fe<5t of heretics at
Bologna in Italy, who had all things in common, even
their wives and children.
Their facility in complying with all manner of debau¬
chery, made them get the name obedientes, compliers.
BARANCA, a port-town of Terra Firma, in South
America; fituated about 30 miles up the river Grande,
in 750 30' W. long, and ii° N. lat.
BARANGI, officers among the Greeks of the lower em¬
pire. Cujas calls them in Latin proteftores, and others
give them the name offecurigeri. It was their bufi-
nefs to keep the keys of the city-gates, where the em¬
peror refided.
BARANWAHR, a town of Lower Hungary, not far
from the Danube, in 20° E. long, and 46° 20 N. lat.
BARAPICKLET, bread made of fine flour, and
kneaded up with barm, which makes it very light and
fpungy. Its form is round, about a hand-breadth.
BARATHRUM, in antiquity, a deep dark pit at Athens,
into which condemned perfons were call headlong. It
had {harp fpikes at the top, that no man might efcape
out, and others at the bottom to pierce and torment
fuch as were caft in.
BARB, orBARBE, in commerce. See Barbe.
BARBA, in botany, a word often ufed in compofition
with fome other, to form the trivial names of feveral
plants, as barba jovis, barba caprx, &c.
BARBACAN, or Barbican, an outer defence, or for¬
tification to a city or caftle, ufed efpecially as a fence
to the city, or walls; alfo, an aperture made in the
wall of a fortrefs, to fire through upon the enemy.
Barbacan is alfo ufed to denote a fort at the entrance
of a bridge, or the outlet of a city, having a double
wall with towers.
BARBALIA, in botany, a genus of the didynamia an-
giofpermia. The calix confifts of four divifions; the
tapfule
BAR (521
capfule is quadrangular, with two claflic valves, and
two feeds. There are fix fpecies, none of them na¬
tives of Britain.
Bakbacan, in archite<fhire, a canal, or opening left in
the wall, for water to come in and go out, when build¬
ings are erefted in places liable to be overflowed, or to
drain off the water from a terras, or the like.
BARBxTDOES, one of the Britilh Caribbee Iflands, ly¬
ing eaftward of all the relt, in $9° 3c/W. long, and
130 N. lat. being only 25 miles in length, and about
15; in breadth.
Barbadoes-tar, a mineral fluid of the nature of the
thicker fluid bituinens, of a naufeous, bitterilh tafte,
very ftrong and difagreeable fmell, found in many
parts of America trickling down the fides of the
mountains, and fometimes floating on the furface of
the waters. It has been greatly recommended in
coughs, and other diforders of the breaft and lungs.
BARBANCON, a principality of Hainault.
BARBARA, among logicians, the firfl: mode of the
firft figure of fyllogifms.
A fyllogifm in barbara, is one whereof all the pro-
pofitions are univerfal and affirmative; the middle
term being the fubjedt of the firfl; propofition, and at¬
tribute in the fecond. For example.
Bar. Every wicked man is miferable;
Ba. All tyrants are wicked men ;
Ra. Therefore all tyrants are miferable.
BARBARIAN, a name given by the ancient Greeks and
Romans to all who were not of their own country,
or were not initiated in their language, manners, and
cuftoms.
In this fenfe the word fignified with them no more
than foreigner; not fignifying, as among us, a wild,
rude, or uncivilized perfon.
BARBARISM, in a general fenfe, a rudenefs of lan¬
guage or behaviour.
Barbarism, in grammar, an offence againft the purity
of ftyle or language; or an ungrammatical way of
fpeaking or writing, or contrary to the true idiom of
any particular language.
BARBARY, a large tradt of Africa, extending along
the Mediterranean, from 20 W. long, to 30° E. long,
that is, from the river Mulvia, which feparates it from
Morocco, to Egypt.
It comprehends the countries of Algers, Tunis, Tri¬
poli, and Barca.
BARBASOTE, a fea-port of Africa in the kingdom of
Fez, at a little diflance from Ceuta. See Ceuta.
B ARBE, in commerce, a barbary horfe, greatly efteemed
for its beauty, ftrength, and fwiftnefs. Barbes are
commonly of a Him ffiape, and have very thin legs;
they retain their vigour to the laft, and are therefore
much prized for rtallions. They are ufed both for the
faddle and the coach.
Barbe, in the military art: To fire in barbe, means to fire
the cannon over the parapet, inftead of firing through
the embraffures; in which cafe the parapet muft not
be above three feet and a half high.
Barbe, or Barde, is an old word, denoting the ar¬
mour of the horfes of the ancient knights and foldicrs,
Vol, I. No. 22. 3
) R A R
who were accoutred at all points. It is faid to be an
armour of iron and leather, wherewith the neck, bread,
and ffioulders of the horfe were covered.
BARBED, in a general fenfe, bearded like a fifli-book,
fet with barbs; alfo ffiaved or trimmed.
Barbed, and crested, in heraldry, an appellation given
to the combs and gills of a cock, when particularized
for being of a different timflure from the body.
A barbed crofs, is a crofs, the extremities whereof
are like the barbed irons ufed for linking of fiffi. See
Plate LI. fig. 6.
BARBELICOTaE, in church-hiflory, a fed! of gnoflics,
who affirmed that an immortal Eon had commerce with
a virgin called Barbelath, to whom he granted fuc-
ceffively the gift of prophecy, incorruptibility, and eter¬
nal life.
BARBER, one who makes a trade of /having or trim¬
ming the beards of other men for money.
BARBERINO, a town ofTufcany in Italy, fituated
upon the river Siera, in 1 x° E. long, anda^ 5' N. lat.
BARBERRY, in botany. SccBerberis.
BARBICAN, or Barbacan. See Barbacan.
BARBLE, or Barbel. See Barbel.
BARBLES, or Barbs, in farriery, the knots or fuper-
fluous fleffi, that grow up in the channels of a horfe’s
mouth ; that is, in the intervals that feparate the bars,
and lie under the tongue.
BARBOTINE, a feed calledfantonicum, 6" fe-
men contra vermes; in Englilh, worm-feed. See
Worm-seed.
BARBORA, a maritime city of Africa, in the kingdom
of Adel, upon the ftreights of Babelmandel.
BARBUDA, one of the Britiffi Caribbee Illands, about
20 miles long, and 12 broad, in 6i° W. long, and
180 N. lat.
BARBUS, in ichthyology. See Cyprinus.
BARBUSINSKOI, a city of Alia, in the Ruffian em¬
pire, fituated upon the eaftern bank of the lake Baikal.
BARBY, a town of Upper Saxony, in Germany, upon,
the Elbe.
BARBYLA, in botany. See Prunus.
BARCA, a country lying on the Mediterranean, be¬
tween Tripoli and Egypt; a barren defart for the
moll part.
BARCALON, an apellation given to the prime minifler
of the king of Siam. The barcalon has in his depari-
ment every thing relating to commerce, both at home
and abroad. He is likewife fuperintendant of the
king’s magazines.
BARCELONA, the chief city of Catalonia, in Spain.
It is fituated in a large plain along the ffiore of the
Mediterranean ; being divided into the new and old
town, feparated from each other by a wall and ditch :
20 E. long, and 41° 2c/ N. lat.
BARCELONETA, a town of Piedmont, now fubjeft
to France: 6° 40' E. long, and 440 35' N. lat.
BARCELOR, or Basselor, a port-town on the coafl
of Malabar, in 74° 1,5' E. long, and 13° 3c/ N. lat.
BARCELOS, a town of the province ot Entre-Minho-
Duro, in Portugal, about 30 miles north of Porto, in
90 I5, W. long, and 41° id N. lat.
t 6 Q__ BARD,
BAR ( 52
BARD, a poet among the ancient Gauls and Britons,
who celebrated the praifes of heroes, with a view to
incu'cate virtue, and fometimes to terminate a diffe¬
rence between two armies at the point of engagement.
It is dfputed wherein the bards differed from the
druids : Some pretend that thefe were the priefts and
philofophers of the nation, and that thofe were only
the poets and hiftorians ; but it is more probable that
druid was a general word, comprehending the priefts,
the judges, the indru&ors of youth, and the bards
or poets.
BAR DANA, in botany. See Arctium.
BARDED, in heraldry, the fame with caparifoned.
BARDELLE, in the menage, a faddle made in the
. form of a great faddle, but only of cloth fluffed with
ftraw, and tied tight down with packthread, without
either leather, wood, or iron. In Italy they trot their
colts with inch faddles.
BARDESANISTS, in church-hiftory, Chriftian here¬
tics of the fecond century, who maintained that the
devil was a felf-exiftent independent being; thatjefus
Chrift was not born of a woman, but brought, his body
with him from heaven ; and denied the refurredtion of
the body.
BARDEWICK, a town in Lower Saxony in German}',
about feven miles north of Lunenburg. It is fubjeifl
to the eledtor of Hanover, and fituated in io° 6' E.
long, and 530 4c/ N. lat.
BARDS, Bardi. See Bard.
Bards, in the art of cookery, broad flices of bacon,
with which pullets, capons, pigeons, &c. are fome¬
times covered, before they are roafted, baked, or other-
wife dreffed.
BARDT, a port-town of Pomerania, in Germany; it is
fubjedt to Sweden, and fituated in 13° 20' E. long, and
540 20' N. lat.
BAREITH, a town of Franconia in Germany, in
the margi aviate of Culbach ; in 12° 20' E. long, and
50° N. lat.
BARENTON, a town of lower Normandy in France.
BAR-FEE, a fee of twenty pence which every prifoner
acquitted of felony pays to the goaler.
BARFLEUR, a town and cape of Normandy, in France,
about 12 miles eaft of Cherburg ; in i° 15' W. and
490 47'. N. lat.
BARGE, in naval affairs, a boat of ftate and pleafure,
adorned with vatious ornaments, having bales and tilts,
and feats covered with culhions and carpets, and
benches for many oars; as the lord-mayor’s barge,
a company’s barge, an admiral’s barge, It is al-
fo the name of a flat-bottomed veffel employed for car
rying goods in a navigable river; as thofe upon the
river Thames, called weft-country barges.
Barge, in ornithology. See Scolopax.
BARGE-cea/Ze/, in architedhire, a beam mortifed into
another, to ftrengthen the building.
BARGE-cear/e, with bricklayers, a term ufed for that
part of the tiling which projefts over without the
principal rafters, in all forts of buildings, where there
is either a gable or a kirkin-bead. See Gable and
Hkad,
2 ) BAR
BARGEMONT. a town of Provence in France, in the
diocefe of Frejus.
BARILLIA, a kind of Spanifh pot-alh, ufed in the
glafs-trade.
BARING 0/"/re?/, in agriculture, the taking away fome
of the earth about the roots, that the winter-rain and
fnow-water may penetrate further into the roots. This
is frequently pr'adifed in the autumn.
BARJOLS, a town of Provence in France, in 6° $d
E. long, and 430 36'N. lat.
BARIPICNI, or Suoni Baripicni, in mufic, fignify
in general any low, grave, or deep found.
BARK, in the anatomy of plants, the exterior part of
trees, correfponding to the fldn of an animal. See
Agriculture, p 43.
Bark, or Jesuit’s Bark, is a name given by way of
eminence to the quinquina. .See Quinquina.
Bark, in navigation, a little veffel with two or three
triangular fails; but, according to Guillet, it is a veT-
fel with three marts, viz. a main-maft, fore-maft, and
mizen-maft. It carries about two hundred tons.
BARKAN, a town of Hungary, remarkable for two
vi&ories which the Chriftians obtained there over the
Turks, the one in 1664, and the other in 1683.
BARKARY, a tan-houfe, or place for keeping bark.
¥>AKK-binding, a diftemper incident to trees, cured by
flitting the bark, or cutting along the grain.
Bark-£<7///»£, is when the trees are galled with thorns,
&c. It is cured by binding clay on the galled places.
JSAVLK-longue, or Barca lenga, a fmall low fharp-built,
but very long veffel without a deck. It goes with
fails and oars, and is very common in Spain.
BARKHAMSTEAD, a market-town in the weft part
of Hertfordfhire, about eighteen miles w'eft of Hert¬
ford, in 4' W. long, and 510 4c/ N. lat.
BARKING, a fiflting town of Effex, fituated on the
river Thames, about eight miles eaft of London.
Barking of /m?/, the peeling off the rind or bark.
This muft be done, in our climate, in the month of
May, becaufe at that time the fap of the tree fcpa-
rates the bark from the wood. It would be very diffi¬
cult to perform it at any other time of the year, un-
lefs the feafon was extremely wet and rainy, for heat
and drynefs are a very great hinderance to it.
BARKLEY, a market-town of Gloucefterffiire, about
fifteen miles fouth-weft of Gloucefter, in 20 357 W. Ion.
and 51° 40' N. lat.
BARKWAY, a market-town in Hertfordffiire, under
the meridian of London, and fifteen miles h of
Cambridge.
BARLEDUC, the capital of the duchy of Bar. See
Bar.
BARLEMONT, a town of Hainault, in the French
Netherlands, fituated on the river Sambre, about fif¬
teen miles fouth of Mons, in 30 40^ E. long, and
50° ic/ N. lat.
BARLETTA, a port-town of Barri, in the kingdom of
Naples, fituated on the gulf of Venice, twenty-two
miles weft of Barri, in 17° E. long, and 41° N. fat.
BARLEY, in botany. See Hordeum.
Barley*
BAR ( 523 ) BAR
Barley mv?, the kaft of our long-meafures, being the
third of an inch.
BARLOVENTO JJles, the fame with the Caiibbees.
BARM, the fame with yeft. See Yest.
BARNABITES, a religious order, founded in the fix-
teenth century by three Italian gentlemen, who had
been advifed by a famous preacher of thofe days to
read carefully the epiftles of St Paul. Hence they
were called clerks of St Paul, and Barnabites, be-
caufe they performed their firft exercife in a church of
St Barnabas at Milan. Their habit is black, and their
office is to inftruft, cathechife, and ferve in miffion.
BARNACLE, in ornithology, a fpecies of goofe. See
Anas.
BARNACLES, in farriery, an inftrument compofed of
two branches joined at one end with a hinge, to put
upon horfes nofes when they will not ftand quietly to
be ffio3, blooded, or drelfed.
BARNARD-CASTLE, a town of the biffiopric of
Durham, in i° 3' W. long, and 540 2(0 N. lat.
BARNET, a market-town of Middlefex (part of it in
Hertfordffiire) ten miles north-weft of London, in ic/
W.'long. and 510 ^2 N. lat.
BARNSTABLE, a port-town of Devonffiire, fituated
on the river Tan, about thirty miles north of Exeter,
in W. long. 40 10', and 51° 42' N. lat. It fends
two members to parliament.
BAROCHE, a port-town of the hither India, in the
province of Cambaya; fituated fixty miles north of
Surat, in 720 E. long, and 220 15' N. lat.
BAROCO, in logic, a term given to the fourth mode
of the fecond figure of fyllogifms. A fyllogifm in
baroco has the firft propofition univerfal and affirma¬
tive, but the fecond and third particular and negative,
and the middle term is the predicate in the two firft:
propofitions. For example,
Nullus homo non efi bipes :
Non omne animal eji bipes :
Non omne animal ejl homo.
BAROMETER, a machine for meafuring the weight
of the atmofphere, and the variations therein, in or¬
der to determine the changes of the weather. See
Pneumatics.
BARON, a degree of nobility next below a vifeount,
and above a baronet. It is probable that formerly
all thofe were barons who had lordfliips with courts-
baron, and foon after the conqueft all fuch fat in the
houfe of peers ; but they being very numerous, it grew
an order and cuftom, that none ffiould fit but fuch
as the king thought fit to call up by writ, which ran
pro hac vice tantum. This ftate of nobility being
very precarious, they at length obtained of the king
letters patent; and thefe were called barons by patent,
or creation, the only way now in ufe of making ba¬
rons, unlefs when the fon of a lord, in his anceftor’s
life-time, is fummoned by a writ.
On folemn occafions, barons wear a coronet, repre-
fented in Plate LI. fig. 19.
Barc n by tenure, one who held certain territories of the
king, who ftill retained the tenure in chief to himfelf.
Barons of the exchequer, the four judges to whom the
adminiftration of juftice is committed, in caufes be¬
tween the king and his fubjebts, relating to matters,
concerning the revenue. They were formerly barons
of the realm, but of late are generally perfons learn¬
ed in the laws. Their office is alfo to look into the
accounts of the king, for which reafon they have au¬
ditors under them. See Auditor.
Barons of the cinque-ports are members of the houfe
of commons, elefted by the five ports, two for each
port. See the article Cinque-ports.
Baron and Feme, in our law, a term ufed for the
hufband in relation to his wife, who is called feme ;
and they are deemed but one perfon; fo that a wife
cannot be witnefs for or againft her hufbaud, nor- he
for or againft his wife, except in cafes of high treafon.
Baron Feme, in heraldry, is when the coats of
arms of a man and his wife are borne per pale in the
fame efcutcheon, the man’s being always on the dex¬
ter fide, and the woman’s on the finifrer; but here the
woman is fuppofed not an heirefs, for then her coat
muft be borne by the hulband on an efchutcheon of
pretence. See Pale and Escutcheon of pretence.
Prendre de Baron. See Prendre.
BARONET, a modern degree of honour, next to a ba¬
ron,. created by K. James I. in order to propagate
a plantation in Uifter in Ireland, for which purpofe
each of them was to maintain thirty foldiers in Ireland,
for three years, after the rate of eight-pence fterling
per day to each foldier. The honour is hereditary,
and they have the precedence of all knights, except
thofe of the garter, bannerets, and privy-counfellors.
They are ftyled baronets in all writs, and the addition
of Sir is attributed to them, as the title of Lady is. to
their wives. No honour is be created between barons
and baronets.
BARONY, the honour and territory which gives title
to a baron, whether he be a layman or a bifliop.
BAROSCOPE, the fame with barometer. See Baro¬
meter.
BARR, or Bar. See Bar.
BarR-i/zcr, falfe dice, fo contrived as not readily to
turn up certain fides.
BARRA, in commerce, a long-meafure ufed in Portu¬
gal and fome parts of Spain, to meafure woolen cloths,
linen cloths, and ferges. There are three forts, the
barra of Valencia, 13 of which make 12% yards Eng-
lifir meafure; the barra of Caftile, 7 of which make
64 yards; and the barra of Aragon, 3 of which make
24 yards Engliffi.
BARRACAN, in commerce, a fort of fluff, not diar
pered, fomething like camblet, but of a coarfer grain.
It is ufed to make cloaks, furtouts, and fuch other
garments, to keep off the rain.
BARRACKS, or Baracks, places for foldiers to lodge
in, efpecially in garrifons.
BARRATOR, in law, a common mover or maintainer
of fuits and quarrels, either in courts, or elfewhere in
the country. A man cannot be adjudged a barrator
for bringing any number of fuits in his own right,
though they are vexatious. Barrators are punifticd
by fine and imgrifonment.
BAR-
BAR
BARRATRY, in law, fignlfies the fomenting quarrels
and Iav/-fuits.
Barratry, in a {hip-mafter, is his cheating the own¬
ers, If goods delivered on fhip-board, are embezzled,
all the mariners ought to contribute to the fatisfaftion
of the party that loll his goods, by the maritime law;
and the caufe is to be tried in the admiralty. In a cafe,
where a drip was infured aga-inlt the barratry of the
mailer, &c. and the jury found that the Ihip was loll
by the fraud and negligence of the mafter, the court
agreed, that the fraud was barratry, though not named
in the covenant; but that negligence was not,
BARREAUX-fV/, a fortrefs of Savoy, having Mont-
melian on the north, and Grenoble on the fouth, fitu-
ated in 50 30' E. long, and 45° N. lat.
BARREL, in commerce, a round veflel, extending
more in length than in breadth, made of wood, in
form of a little tun. See Tun.
It ferves for holding feveral forts of merchandize.
Barrel is alfo a meafure of liquids. The Englilh
barrel, wine-meafure, contains the eighth part of a
tun, the fourth part of a pipe, and one half of a hogf-
head ; tl*it is to fay, it contains thirty-one gallons
and a half: A barrel, beer-meafure, contains thirty-
fix gallons ; and, ale-meafure, thirty-two gallons.
The barrel of beer, vinegar, or liquor preparing for
vinegar, ought to contain thirty-four gallons, accord¬
ing to the ftandard of the ale quart.
Barrel alfo denotes a certain weight of feveral mer¬
chandizes, which differs according to the feveral com¬
modities : A barrel of Effex butter weighs one hun¬
dred and fix pounds ; and of Suffolk butter, two hun-
hundred and fifty-fix pounds. The barrel of herrings
ought to contain thirty-two gallons wine meafure,
which amount to about twenty-eight gallons old ftand¬
ard, containing about a thoufand herrings. The bar¬
rel of falmon muft contain forty-two gallons. The
barrel of eels the fame. The barrel of foap muft
weigh two hundred and fifty-fix pounds.
Barrel, in mechanics, a term given by watch-makers
ro the cylinder about which the fpring is wrapped :
And by gun-fmiths to the cylindrical tube of a gun,
piftol, <bc. through which the ball is difcharged.
Barrel, in anatomy, a pretty large cavity behind tire
tympanum of the ear, about four or five lines deep,
and five or fix wide.
Thundering Barrels, in the military art, are filled
with bombs, grenades, and other fire-works, to be
rolled down a breach.
BARRENNESS, the fame with fterility. See Ste¬
rility.
BARRERA, in botany, a genus of the pentandria pen-
tagynia clafs. The calix has five divifions, and the
petals five, with long filiform claws. There is but
one fpecies, viz. the capenfis, a native of ^Ethiopia.
BARRI, a city of the kingdom of Naples, and capital
of a province of the fame name, fituated on the gulf
of Venice, in 17° 40' E. long, and 40° 4c/ N. lat.
B ARRICADE, a warlike defence, confifting of empty
barrels and fuch like veffels, filled with earth, ftones,
carts, trees cut down, againft an enemy’s ftiot, or af-
B A R
fault; but generally trees cut with fix faces, which
are crofted with battoons as long as a half-pike, bound
about with iron at the feet.
BARRIER, in fortification, a kind of fence made at a
paflage, retrenchment, fee. to ftop up the entry there¬
of, and is compofed of great ftakes, about four or five
feet high, placed at the diftance of eight or ten feet
from one another, with tranfums, or over-thwart
rafters, to ftop either horfe or foot, that would enter
or rufh in with violence : In the middle is a moveable
bar of wood, that opens and (huts at pleafure. A bar¬
rier is commonly fet up in a void fpace, between the
citadel and the town, in half moons, <tetc.
Barrier has been alfo ufed to fignify a martial exercife
of armed men, fighting together with fwords, within
rails or bars, which inclofed them.
BARRING a vein, in farriery, an operation performed
upon the veins of a horfe’s legs, and other parts of his
body, with intent to ftop the courfe, and leffen the
quantity of the malignant humours that prevail there.
BARRISTER, in common law, a perfon qualified, and
impowered to plead and defend the caufe of clients, in
the courts of juftice. They are of two forts, the out¬
ward, or outer-barrifters, who, by their long ftudy in
and knowledge of the law, which muft be for a term
of feven years at leaft, are called to public practice,
and always plead without the bar.
The inner-barrifters are thofe, who, becaufe they
are either attorney, fbllicitor, ferjeant, or council to
the king, are allowed, out of refpeft, the privilege of
pleading within the bar. But at the rolls, and Tome
other inferior courts, all barrifters are admitted with¬
in the bar.
Barrifters, in the Englilh laws, amount to the fame
with licentiates and advocates in other countries, and
courts, where the civil, laws obtain.
BARROW, in the falt-works, wicker-cafes, almoft in
the ftiape of a fugar-loaf, wherein the fait is put to
drain.
BARRULET, in heraldry, the fourth part of the bar,
or the one half of the cloffet: An ulual bearing in
coat-armour.
BARRULY, in heraldry, is when the field is divided
bar-ways, that is acrofs from fide to fide, into feveral
parts. See Plate LI. fig. 7.
BARRY, in heraldry, is when an efcutcheon is divided
bar-ways, that is, acrofs from fide to fide, into an even
number of partitions, confifting of two or more tinc¬
tures, interchangeably difpofed : It is to be exprefled
in the blazon by the word harry, and the number of
pieces muft be fpecified ; but if the divifions be odd,
the field muft be firft named, and the number of bars
expreffed.
Barry-bendy is when an efcutcheon is divided evenly,
bar and bend-ways, bylines drawn tranfverfe and dia¬
gonal, interchangeably varying the tindtures of which
it confifts. See Plate LI. fig. 8.
Barry-pily is when a coat is divided by feveral lines
drawn obliquely from fide to fide, where they form
acute angles.
BARTER, or Truck, is the exchanging of one com¬
modity
( )
BAR ( 525 ) BAS
modity for another ; in doing of which the price of one
of the commodities, and an equivalent quantity of the
other, muft be found either by pra&ice, or by the rule
of three.
§>ueji. t. How many pounds of cotton, at 9 d. per
tb. muft be given in barter for 13 C. 3 Q^i4 K>. of
pepper, at 2 1. 16 s. per C. ?
Ftrji, Find the price or value of the commodity
whofe quantity is given, as follows.
C. lb. L. s.
13 3 14 at 2 16
al.
16 s,
14 lb.
26
10 8
H
7
L.38 17
Secondly, Find how much cotton, at per lb.
38 1. 17 3. will purchafe, as under.
d. lb. L. s.
If 9 : I :: 38 17
9)9324C
  c. <t-
Anf. 1036 lb. — 9 1
If the above queftion be wrought decimally, the
operation may Hand as follows :
C. L. C.
If I : 2.8 :: 13.87J
2.8
111000
27750
 lb.
.0375)38.8500(1036:
37 J' ’ *
C. ^
= 9 1 Anf.
1350
II2J
2250
2250
The value or price of the goods received and deli¬
vered in barter being always equal, it is obvious, that
the product of the quantities received and delivered,
multiplied into their refpeftive rates, will be equal.
Hence arifes a rule which may be ufed with advan¬
tage in working feveral queftions ; namely. Multiply
the given quantity and rate of the one commodity, and
the product divided by the rate of the other commodity
quotes the quantity fought; or divided by the quan¬
tity quotes the rate.
Vol. I. Numb. 22. 3
^uejl. 2. How many yards of linen, at 4 s. per
yard, fhould I have in barter for 120 yards of velvet,
at 15 s. 6d. ?
Yds. Sixp. Sixp. Yds.
120 X 31 = 3720, and 8)3720(459 Anf.
BARTHOLOMEW, or St Bartholomew, one of
the Caribbee iflands, fituated in 62° 5 W. long, and
180 6' N. lat.
BARTON, a market-town in Lincolnlhire, fituated on
the fouthern (hereof the Humber, 30 miles fouth-ealf
of York, in 15' W. long, and 530 40' N. lat.
Barton is alfo ufed, in the wed of England, for the
demefne lands of a manor ; alfo for the manoj-houfe;
and in fome parts for out-houfes, 'be.
BARTSIA, in botany, a genus of the didynamia angi-
ofpermia clafs. The calix has two coloured emargi-
nated lobes ; the corolla is lefs than the calix, and the
fuperior lip is longed ; the capfule has two cells. The
fpecies are 4, of which the vifeofa, or marih eye-
bright cow-wheat, and the alpina, or mountain eye-
bright cow-wheat, are natives of Britain.
BARUA, a city of Abyffinia, in Africa, the capital of
the kingdom of Barnagaffa.
BARULES, in church-hidory, certain heretics, who
held that the Son of God had only a phantom of a
body; that fouls were created before the world, and
that they lived all at one time.
BARUTH, an Indian meafure, containing feventeen
gantans : It ought to weigh about three pounds and an
half Englifh avoirdupois.
BARYTONUM, in the Italian mufic, the fame with
our bafs. See Bass.
BAS-RELIEF. See Basso-reljevo.
BASALTES, in natural hiftory, called alfo cotitula,
lapis keraclius, and lapis lydius, a kind of marble, of
a very fine texture, of a deep gloffy black, refembling
that of polifhed fteel, and mixed with no other colour,
nor any extraneous matter. The mod remarkable
quality of this marble is its figure, being never found
in drata, like other marbles, but always danding up
in the form of regular angular columns, compofed of a
number of joints, one placed on and nicely fitted to
another, as if formed by the hands of a (kilful work¬
man. It is remarkably hard and heavy, will not drike
fire with dee!, and is a fine touch-done; See Plate
LI. fig. 20. The bafaltes was originally found in
columns in Ethiopia, in fragments in the river Tmo-
lus, and fome other places ; we now have it frequent¬
ly, both in columns and fmall pieces, in Spain, Ruf-
fia, Poland, near Drefden, and in Silefia ; but the
nobled (lore in the world feems to be that called the
Giant's caufenuay, in Ireland, where it riles far up in
the country, runs into the fea, crolfes its bottom, and
rifes again on the oppofite land.
BASANUS, or Basanites, names ufed by ancient
writers for the bafaltes.
BASARUCO, in commerce, a fmall bafe coin in the
Ead Indies, being made only of very bad tin. There
are, however, two forts of this coin, a good and a
bad; the bad is one fixth in value lower than the good,
t 6 R BASE,
3
BAS ( 526 ) BAS
IL^SE, in geometry, the loweft fide of the perimeter of
a figure : Thus, the bafe of a triangle may be faid of
any of its fides, but more properly of the loweft, or
that which is parallel to the horizon. In redtangled
triangles, the bafe is properly that fide oppofite to the
right angle.
Base of a folid figure, the loweft fide, or that on which
it ftands.
Base of a conic fettion, a right line in the hyperbola
and parabola, arifing from the common interfedtion of
the fecant plane, and the bafe of the cone.
Jltern Bask. See Altern.
Base, in architediure, is ufed for any body which bears
another, but particularly for the lower part of a co¬
lumn and pedeftal. See Architecture.
Base, in fortification, the exterior fide of the polygon,
or that imaginary line which is drawn from the flapked
angle of a baftion, to the angle oppofite to it.
Base, in gunnery, the leaft fort of ordnance, the dia¬
meter of whofe bore is inch, weight 200 pound,
length 4 feet, load 5 pound, Ihot pound wt. and
diameter inch.
Base line, in perfpedtive, the common fedtion of a pic¬
ture, and the geometrical plane.
IDiflintt Base, in optics. See Focus.
Base ^the heart, in anatomy, denotes its upper part.
Base, or Bass, in mufic. See Bass.
Base point, in heraldry. See Point.
BASELLA, in botany, a genus of the pentandria tri-
gynia clafs. It has no calix ; the corolla has 6 di-
vifions ; and there is but one feed in the capfule. The
fpecies are 3, viz. the rubra, alba, and lucida, all
natives of India.
BASEMENT, in architedture, a bafe continued a con-
fiderable length, as round a houfe, room, foe. See
Architecture.
BASHAW, a Turkiflr governor of a province, city, or
other diftridt.
Bafhaws include beglerbegs, and fometimes fangiac-
begs, though a diftindtion is fometimes made, and the
name bajhauj is appropriated to the middle fort, or
fuch as have two enfigns or horfe-tails carried before
them. Thofe who have the honour of three tails, are
called beglerbegs; and thofe who have only one, fan-
giacbcgs.
The appellation ba/have is given by way of cour-
tefy to almoft every perfon of any figure at the grand
fignior’s court.
B ASIENTO, a river of the kingdom of Naples, which
rifes near Potenza in the Bafilicate, waters that pro¬
vince, and runs into the gulf of Tarento.
BASIGLOSSUS, or Basioglossus. See Basio-
GLOSSUM.
B ASIL, in geography, a city and canton of Switzer¬
land, near the confines of Alface, fituated on both fides
the river Rhine.
The city is large, populous, and fortified ; being
fituated in 70 40' E. long, and 470 40'' N. lat.
Basie, in,botany. See Ocymum.
Basil, among joiners^ the doping edge of a chiflelj or
of the iron of a plane,, to. work on foft wood.:. They
ufually make the bafil 12 degrees, and for hard wood
18 ; it being remarked, that the more acme the bafil
is, the better the inftrument cuts; and the more ob-
tufe, the ftronger and fitter it is for fervice.
Order of St Basil, the moft ancient of all the religious
orders, was very famous in the eaft. It paffed into the
weft about the year 1057, and was held in great e-
fteem, efpecially in Italy. As to their rules, the Ita¬
lian monks of that order faft every Friday in the year :
They eat meat but three times a week, and then but
once a-day : They work all together at certain hours
of the day: Their habit is nearly like that of the Be¬
nedictines, and they wear a fmall beard like the fa¬
thers of the miffion.
BASILARE os, in anatomy, the fame with osfpheneides.
See Sphenoides.
BASILIC, in ancient architecture, a term ufed for a
large hall, or public place, with ifles, porticos, gal¬
leries, tribunals, foe. where princes fat and admi-
niftered juftice in perfon.
BASILICA, in anatomy, the interior branch of the ax¬
illary vein, running the whole length of the arm.
BASILICATE, a province of the kingdom of Naples,
having the Terra di Barri on the north, and the pro¬
vince of Calabria on the fouth.
BASILICI, a denomination given in the Greek empire
to thofe who carried the emperor’s orders and com¬
mands.
BASILICON, in pharmacy, an epithet for a great ma¬
ny compofitions to be found in the ancient medicinal
writers : But it more particularly denotes an officinal
ointment, compofed of wax, refin, pitch, and oil of
olives, from thence called tetrapharmacum. It is
much ufed in wounds
BASILICS, a body of the Roman laws, tranflated
into Greek. The bafilics comprehend the infti-
tutes, digefts, code, novels, and feme edicts of jufti-
nian and other emperors.
BASILICUS, in aftronomy, cor leonis, a fixed ftar of
the firft magnitude in the conftellation Leo. See
Leo.
BASILIDIANS, in church-hiftory, a branch of gno-
ftics, who maintained that Chrift’s body was only a
phantom, and that Simon the Cyrenean fuflfered in his
ftead.
BASILIGOROD, a city of the Ruffian empire, in
Mufcovitiffi Tartary, fituated upon the banks of the
Wolga.
BASILISCUS, in zoology, the trivial name of a fpe¬
cies of lacerta. SeeLACERTA.
BASILISK, in military affairs, a large piece of ord¬
nance, being a 48-pounder, and weighing about 7200
pounds. Thofe of the French were 10 feet long, and
thofe of the Dutch 15. The French do not call any
more of. that calibre.
BASINGSTOKE, a market-town of Hampfhire, about
16 miles north-eaft of Winchefter, in i° 15' W. lon.-
and 51° 20 N. lat.
BASIOGLOSSUS, in anatomy, a mufcle arifing from-
the bafe of the os hyoides.
BASIS, bafe,, in geometry. See Base.
Basis*
BAS (5
Basis, among phyficians, denotes the principal ingre¬
dients in compound medicines.
BASKET, a machine made of twigs interwoven toge¬
ther, in order to hold fruit, earth, &c. It denotes
an uncertain quantity, as a balket of medlars is two
bulhels, of afa foetida from 20 to 50 pound weight.
Baskets of earth, in the military art, called by the
French cor be Hies, are fmall bafkets ufed in fieges, on
the parapet of a trench, being filled with earth. They
are about a foot and a half high, about a foot and a
half diameter at the top, and 8 or 10 inches at bot¬
tom ; fo that being fet together, t ere is a fort of em-
bralfures left at their bottoms, through which the fol-
diers fire, without expofing themfelves.
Basket-fish.. See Asterias.
Basket-salt, that made from falt-fprings, being purer,
whiter, and compofed of finer grains than the com¬
mon brine-falt.
Basket-tenure, a tenure of lands by the fervice of
making the king’s bafkets.
RASKIRI, a country of Mufcovitifh Tartary, bounded
on the north by the Tartars of Tumen, on the call: by
Barabinfkoi, on the fouth by the mountain Sortora,
and on the weft by the dutchy of Bulgaria.
BASON, in anatomy. See Pelvis.
Bason, in hydraulics, a refervoir of water, ufed for va¬
rious purpofes : Thus we fay. The bafon of a jet
d’eau, the bafon of a fountain, and likewife the bafon
of a port or harbour.
Bason, in Jewifh antiquities, the laver of the taberna¬
cle, made of the brafs looking-glafles belonging to
thofe devout women that watched and flood centinels
at the door of the tabernacle.
Bason, in mechanics, a term ufed by glafs-grinders for
a difh of copper, iron, &c. in which they grind con¬
vex glaffes, as concave ones are formed on fpheres :
And by hatters for a round iron mould, in which they
form the matter of their hats ; and alfo for a leaden
one for the brims of hats, having an aperture in the
middle, of a diameter fufficient for the largeft block to.
go through,
Basons of a balance, the two fcales or difhes faftened
to the extremities of the firings, the one to hold the.
weight, and the other the thing to be weighed.
Sale by the Bason, at Amllerdam, is a public fale made
by authority, over which prefides an officer, appointed
by the magiftrates. It is fo called, becaufe, before
the lots are delivered to the higheft bidder, they com¬
monly ftrike On a copper bafon, to give notice that the
lot is going to be adjudged.
BASQUE, or Labour, the foutfoweft divifion of the
province of Gafcony, in France.
BASS, in mufic, that part of a concert which is moft
heard, which confifts of the graveft and deepeft founds,
and which is played on the largeft pipes or firings of a
common inftrument, as of an organ, lute,, drc. or on
inftruments larger than ordinary, for that purpofe, as
bafs-viols, baflbons, bafs-hautboys, &c. The bafs
is the principal part of a mufical compofition, and the
foundation of harmony ;, for .which reafoa it is a ma-
17 ) BAS
xim among muficians. That when the bafs is good, the
harmony is feldom bad.
Thorough-^\%% is the harmony made by the bafs viols,
or theorbos, continuing to play both while the voices
ling, and the other inftruments perform ti.eir parts,
and alfo filling up the intervals when any of the other
parts flop. It is played by cyphers marked over the
notes, on the organ, fpinet, harpficord, <bc. and fre¬
quently limply and without cyphers on the bafs-viol
and baffoon.
£s«»/er-BASs is a fecond or double bafs, where there
are feveral in the fame concert.
Bass, in geography, a fteep rock, with an old fort, ac-
cellible only at one place, lying on the coalt of E. Lo-
thain in Scotland, at the mouth of the frith of Forth.
BASSAIM, or BACCEIM, a port-town of the Hither
India, fubjetfl to the Portuguefe, fituated in 710 y7 E.
long, and 190 3c/ N. lat.
BASSANUS, in ornithology. See Pelicanus.
BASSEE, a town of French Flanders, upon the confines -
of Artois, fituated in 30 0,0 E. Ion and 50° 53' N. lat,
BASSEMPOIN, a town of Gafcony, in France.
BASSET, a game at cards, faid to have been invented
by a noble Venetian, for which he.was barviffied.
The perfonsconcerned in it are a dealer, or banker;
his affiflant, who fupervifes the Jofing cards ; and the.
punter, or any one who plays againft the banker.
B.'^SSIGNY, the fouth-eafl divifion of the province of
Champaign, in France. See Campaign.
BASSOON, a mufical inftritment of the wind-fort, blown.
with a reed, furniffied with eleven holes, and ufed as
a bafs in a concert of hautboys, flutes,. <bc.
To. render this inftrument more portable, it is di¬
vided into two parts, whence it is alfo called a fagot..
Its diameter, at bottom is nine inches, and its holes are
flopped like thofe of a large flute.
BASSORA, a large city of Afia, fituated below the con¬
flux of the Tigrisiand Euphrates, in 530 E. long, and
300, 20 N. lat
BASSO-RELIEVO, or Bass-relief, a piece of fculp-
ture, where the figures or images do not protuberate,,
jet, or ftand out far above the plane on which they
are formed.
Whatever figures or reprefentations are thus ctt, .
ftamped, or otherwife wrought, .fo that not the entire :
body,. but only part of it is railed above the plane, are
faid to be done in relief, or relievo j and when that
work is low, .flat, and but a,little railed, it is called
low relief : When a piece of fculpture,. a coin, or a
medal, has its figure raifed fo as'to be well diltin-
guiffied, it is called bold, and we fay its relief is ftrong.
BASS-VIOL, a mufical inftrument of the like form with
that of a violin, but much larger. It is. ft ruck with a
bow as that is, has the: fame number of firings, and
has eight Hops, which-, are fubdivided into femi-llops:
Its found is grave, and has a much nobler efFedt in a
concert than that of the violin.
BASTERNA, a fort of vehicle, much the fame with ;
our chariot, ufed by the ancient Roman ladies. This
was a different carriage from the ledlica, .which it fuc—
ceeded,,
BAS (52
ceeded, inafmuch as the leftjca was borne on mens
flioulders, whereas this was drawn by beads.
BASTIA, the chief city of the illand of Corlica. It is
a good port, fituated on the north-eaft part of the ifland,
in 90 4Q/ E long, and 420 20 N. lat.
BASTILE, a caftle for date prifoners in Paris, anfwer-
ing to the Tower of London.
BASTIMENTOS, fmall iflands on the coad of Darien,
in South America, lying a little to the eadward of
Porto Bello.
BASTION, in the modern fortification, a huge mafsof
earth, faced ufually with fods, fometimes with brick,
and rarely with done, danding out from a rampart,
whereof it is a principal part, and is what, in the an¬
cient fortification, was called a bulwark. See Forti¬
fication.
Solid Bastions are thole that have the void fpace with¬
in them filled up entirely, and raifed of an equal height
with the rampart.
Void and hollow Bastions are thofe that are only fur-
rounded with a rampart and parapet, having the fpace
within void and empty, where the ground is fo low,
that if the rampart be taken, no retrenchment can be
made in the centre, but what will lie under the fire of
the befieged.
Flat Bastion, is a badion built in the middle of the
curtain, when it is too long to be defended by the
badion at its extremes.
Cut Bastion is that whofe point is cut off, and indead
thereof has a re-entering angle, or an angle inwards
with two points outwards, and is ufed either when
without fuch a contrivance the angle would be too
acute, or when water or fome other impediment hin¬
ders the carrying on the badion to its full extent.
Compofed Bastion is when two fides of the interior po¬
lygon are very unequal, which makes the gorges alfo
unequal.
Deformed Bastion is when the irregularity of the lines
and angles makes the badion out of fliape, as when it
wants one of its demigorges, one fide of the interior
polygon being too fhort.
Demi Bastion is compofed of one face only, and but
one flank, and a demigorge.
Double Bastion is that which is raifed on the plane of
another badion.
Regular Bastion is that which has its true proportion
of faces, flanks, and gorges.
Bastion de France, a fortrefs in the kingdom of Tu¬
nis, fubjed to France. It is fituated about 80 miles wed
of the city of Tunis, in 8° E. long, and 36° 30' N.
lat.
BASSTOIGNE, a town of the Netherlands, in the
province of Luxemburg, fituated in 50 26' E. long,
and yo° N. ht.
B ASTON, in law, one of the fervants to the warden of
the Fleet prifon, who attends the king’s courts with a
red daff, for taking into cudody fuch as are commuted
by the court. He alfo attends on fuch prifoners as
are permitted to go at large by licence.
Baston, or Batoon, in architedure, a moulding in
the bafe of a column, called alfo a tore.
8 ) BAT
Baston, or Batoon, in heraldry, a kind of bend, ha¬
ving only one third of the ufual breadth.
The badon does not go from fide to fide, as the
bend or fcarf does, being in the form of a truncheon.
Its ule is a note or mark of badardy. See Plate LI.
fig. 9.
BASTONADE, or Bastinado, a kind of punilhment
inflided by beating the offender with a dick. This
fort of beating, among the ancient Greeks and Ro¬
mans, was the punifhment commonly inflided on cri¬
minals that were freemen, as that of whipping was on
the flaves. We find fome indances of this fort of dif-
cipline among the Hebrews; and it is a penalty ufed in
the ead even at this day.
BAT, in zoology. See Vespertilio.
Bat, Bate, or Batz, a fmall copper coin, mixed with
a little filver, current in feveral cities of Germ; - 7:
it is worth four crutzers. It is alfo a coin in Switzer¬
land, current at five livres, or one hundred fols, French
money.
EATABLE ground, that land which lay between Scot¬
land and England, when the kingdoms were didind,
to which both nations pretended a right.
BATACALO, a fort and town on the eadern coad of
the ifland of Ceylon, in 8i° E. long’, and 8° N. lat.
BATAVIA, the capital of all the Dutch colonies and
fettlements in the Ead Indies. It is fituated on the
ead part of the ifland of Java, and has an excellent
harbour, in 1060 E. long, and 6° S. lat.
BATCHELOR, or Bachelor, a man who dill con¬
tinues in the date of celibacy, or who was never mar¬
ried.
Batchelor was anciently a denomination given to thofe
who had attained to knighthood, but had not a num¬
ber of vaffals fufficient to have their banner carried be¬
fore them in the field of battle; or, if they were not
of the order of bannerets, were not of age to difplay
their own banner, but obliged to march to battle un¬
der another’s banner. It was alfo a title given to
young cavaliers, who having made their fird campaign,
received the military girdle accordingly. Anditferved
to denominate him who had overcome another in a
tournament, the fird time he ever engaged.
Knights Batchelors were fo called, as being the lowed
order of knights, or inferior to bannerets.
Batchelors, in an univerfity-fenfe, are perfons that
have attained to the baccalaureate, or who have taken
the fird degree in the liberal arts and fciences. Be¬
fore a perfon can be admitted to this degree at Ox¬
ford, it is neceffary that he dudy there four years ;
three years more may intitle him to the degree of ma-
der of arts; and in feven years more he may commence
batchelor of divinity. At Cambridge the degrees are
ufually taken much the fame as at Oxford, excepting in
law and pbyfic, in either of which the batchelor’s de¬
gree may be- taken in fix years. In France, the de¬
gree of batchelor of divinity is attained in five year’s
dudy; that is, in two years of philofophy, and three
of divinity.
BAT-FOWLING, a method of catching birds in the
night, by lighting fome draw, or torches, nea> 'he
place
BAT (
place where they are at rooft ; for upon beating them
up, they fly to the flame, where being amazed, they
are eafily caught in nets, or beat down with bufties
fixed to the end of poles, tec.
B ATENBOURG, a town of the United Provinces, fitu-
ated upon the Maefe, between Ravenftein andMegen.
BATH, a fufficient quantity of water collected in fome
convenient receptacle, for people to wafli in, either for
health or pleafure.
Baths are diftinguiflied into natural and artificial,
and natural again into hot and cold. The chief hot
baths in our country are thofe at Bath, near Wells, in
Somerfetftiire; and thofe at Buxton and Matlock in
Derbylhire.
In the city of Bath are four hot baths : one trian¬
gular, called the crofs bath, the heat of which is more
gentle than that of the reft, becaufe it has fewerfprings
in it; the fecond is the hot bath, which was formerly
much hotter than the reft, but it was then not fo
large as at prefent: the other two are the King’s and
Queen’s Bath, divided only by a wall; the laft having
no fpring, but receives its water from the King’s Bath :
each of thefe is furniftied with a pump, to throw out
the water upon the difeafed, where that is required.
Thefe waters abound with a mineral fulphur; they
are hot, of a bluifh colour, and ftrong fcent; they do
not pafs through the body like moft other mineral wa¬
ters ; though if fait be added, they purge prefently.
On fettlements, they afford a black mud, which is ufed
by way of cataplafm in aches, and proves of more fer-
vice to fome than the waters themfelves: The like
they depofite on diftillation, and no other : The crofs-
bath preys on filver, all of them on iron, but none on
brafs.
The ufe of thefe baths is found beneficial in difor-
ders of the head, as palfies, &c. in cuticular difeafes,
as leprofies, isc. obftrudtions, and conftipations of the
bowels, the fcurvy and ftone, and in moft difeafes of
women and children; they are ufed as a laft remedy
in obftinate chronic difeafes, where they fucceed well,
if they agree with the conftitution of the patient.
Of the three hot European waters of note, viz. Aix-
la-Chapelle, Bourbon, and Bath, the firft abounds
more eminently in fulphur, which makes its heat, nau-
feoufnefs, and purgative faculty fo great, that few fto-
machs can bear it.
The Bourbon are of a middle nature, between the
Aix-la-Chapelle and the Bath waters ; being lefs hot,
naufeous, and purgative than thofe of Aix-la-Chapelle;
but more fo than the Bath waters.
Cold baths were by the ancients held in the greateft
efteem; and though they were long banilhed out of
medicine, the prefent age can boaft of abundance of
noble cures performed by them, and fuch as were long
attempted in vain by the moft powerful medicines.
The cold bath is ferviceable in moft chronic difor-
ders; it always ads the part of a diuretic ; and will
do more, efpecially plunging over head in fea-water,
in the cure of melancholy, madnefs, and particularly
that occafined by the bite of a mad dog, than any
other medicine.
Vol. I. No. 23, 3
529 ) BA T
Artificial baths are various, according to the various
occafions; as aqueous baths, vaporous baths, dry baths,
<&c. Aqueous baths are made from common plants,
and other emollient, refolvent, and nervine fubftances;
confifting fometimesof milk and emollient herbs, with
rofe-water, &c. when the defign is to humedate, or
when it is only to cleanfe, it confifts of bran and water
alone ; and when it is for an exceflive pain or tumour,
<bc. in thefe cafes it confifts of a decodion of roots,
plants, and fome fpirit of wine.
In vapour-baths, the defigmof which is to promote
a perfpiration, the fteam or fume of fome decodion is
received upon fome part of the body for that purpofe.
In thefe baths there is no part of the patient’s body
plunged into the decodion, only thofe parts which re¬
quire it are properly difpofed to receive the fteams of
fome proper fomentation. Of this kind are the bag¬
nios, where perfons are made to fweat by the heat of
a room, and pouring on of hot water.
Vapour-baths are of Angular fervice in cold diftem-
pers, anafarca’s, oedematous tumours, paralytic cafes,
fwellings of the tefticles, <&c.
Dry baths are made of alhes, fait, fand, fhreds of
leather, <&c. This bath is fuccefsful in provoking
fweat in a plentiful manner, the patient being placed
conveniently for the reception of the fumes : They are
found ufeful in removing old obftinate pains, and are
very effedual in venereal complaints.
Bath, in Hebrew antiquity, a meafure of capacity,
containing the tenth part of an omer, or feven gallons
and four pints, as a meafure for things liquid; or three
pecks and three pints, as a meafure for things dry.
Baths, in architedure, fuperb buildings, ereded for
the fake of bathing.
Thofe buildings, among the ancients, were moft
pompous and magnificent; fuch were thofe of Titus,
Paulus Aimilius, and Dioclefian, whofe ruins are ftill
remaining.
Bath, in geography, a city of Somerfetfliire, fituated
on the river Avon, ten miles eaft of Briftol, in 20 3c/
W. long, and ji® 3c/ N. lat.
Bath is alfo the name of a town in Hungary, in 20° 4c/
E. long, and 46° N. lat.
Knights of the Bath, a military order in England, fnp-
pofed to have been inftituted by Richard II. who li¬
mited their number to four: However, his fucceflor,
Henry IV. increafed them to forty-fix. Their motto
was tres in uno, fignifying the three theological virtues.
This .order received this denomination from a cu-
ftom of bathing, before they received the golden fpur.
It is feldora ever conferred hut at the coronation of
kings, or the inauguration of a prince of Wales or
Duke of York. They wear a red ribbon beltwife.
The order of the bath, after remaining many years
extind, was revived under George I. by a folema
creation of a great number of knights.
Bath-^/, the daughter of a voice. So the Jews call
one of their oracles, which is frequently mentioned in
their books, efpecially the Talmud, being a fantaftical
way of divination invented by the Jews themfelves,
not unlike the fortes virgiliana o{ the heathens. How-
t 6 S ever.
BAT (5;
ever, the Jewiih writers call this a revelation from
God’s will, which he made to his chofen people, af¬
ter all verbal prophecies had ceafed in Ifrael.
HAm-ivetal, a mixed metal, otherwife called prince's
metal. See Prince’s Metal.
BATH-iwr/fr. See the article Bath.
BATHA, the name of two towns, the one in Barbary,
in the kingdom of Algiers, and the other in Hungary,
upon the banks of the Danube.
BATHING, the walking, foaking, fuppling, refrelh-
ing, moiltening, tic. the body, or any part thereof,
in water, liquor, tic. for pleafure or health. See
Bath.
Bathing a falcoti, is when, weaned from her ramage
fooleries, Ihe is offered fome water to bathe herfelf in
a bafon, where fhe may Hand up to her thighs. By
this means Hie gathers ftrength and boldnefs.
BATHMUS, in anatomy, denotes the cavity of a bone,
fitted to receive the prominence of another bone.
BATICALA, in geography, a kingdom of India, upon
the coafi: of Malabar, to the north of the kingdom of
Canara.
BATIS, in zoology, the trivial name of a fpecies of ra¬
ja. See Raja.
BATMAN, in commerce, a kind of weight ufe at Smyr¬
na, containing fix okes of four hundred drams each,
which amount to fixteen pounds, fix ounces, and fif¬
teen drams of Englilh weight.
BATON, or Baston. See Baston.
BATRACHITES, or Frog-stone, a kind of gem
mentioned by the ancients, and fo called from its re-
fembling the colour of a frog.
EATRACHOMYOMACHIA, the battle of the frogs
and the mice, the title of a fine burlefque poem, ufu-
ally afcribed to Homer.
The fubjeft of the work is the death of Pfycharpax,
a.moufe, fon to Toxartes, who, being mounted on the
on the back of Phyfignathus, a frog, on a voyage to
her palace, to which fhe had invited him, was feized
with fear, when he faw himfelf in the middle of the
pond, fo that he tumbled off and was drowned. Phy-
fignathus being fufpedhed to have fliaken him off with
defign, the mice demanded fatisfaflion, and unanimouf-
ly declared war againfl: the frogs.
BATTA, a province of the kingdom of Congo in Afri¬
ca, which is watered by the river Barbela.
BATTALIA, denotes an army drawn up in order of
battle.
BATTALION, a fmallbody of infantry, ranged in form
of battle, and ready to engage.
A battalion ufually contains from 5 to 800 men ;
but the number it confifts of is not determined. They
are armed with firelocks, fwords, and bayonets; and
divided into thirteen companies, one of which is gre¬
nadiers. They are ufually drawn up with fix men in
file, or one before another. Some regiments confift
but of one battalion, others are divided into four or
five.
BATTEL, a town of Suflex, fix miles north of Ha-
ftings, in ^ E. long, and 50° 55' N. lat.
BATTEN, a name that workmen give to a fcantling of
;o ) BAT
wooden fluff, from two to four inches broad, and a-
bout one inch thick; the length is pretty confiderable,
but undetermined.
This term is chiefly ufed in fpeaking of doors and
windows of fliops, tic. which are not framed of whole
deal, tic. with ftyles, rails, and pannels. like wain-
fcot, but are made to appear as if they were, by means
of thefe battens, bradded on the plain board round
the edges, and fometimes crofs them, and up and
down.
BATTENBURY, a town of Dutch Guelderland, fitu-
ated on the north fhore of the river Made, almoft 6p-
pofite to Ravenftein, in 50 3c/ E. long, and jx° 45'
N. lat.
BATTERING, the attacking a place, work, or the
like, with heavy artillery.
To batter in breach, is to play furioufiy on a work,
as the angle of a half-moon, in order to demolifh and
make a gape therein. In this they obferve never to
fire a piece at the top, but all at the bottom, from
three to fix feet from the ground.
The battery of a camp is ufually furrounded with
a trench, and pallifadoes at the bottom, with two re¬
doubts on the wings, or certain places of arms, capa¬
ble of covering the troops which are appointed for
their defence. See Battery.
BAYTERiNG-/>/V<rf/, or pieces of battery. See Cannon
and Gunnery.
BATTERiNG-raw, in antiquity. See Ram.
BATTERiNG-rrfAvr, in heraldry, a bearing, or coat of
arms, refembling the military enfign of the fame name.
See Plate LI. fig. 10.
BATTERY, in the military art, a parapet thrown
up to cover the gunners, and men employed about the
guns, from the enemy’s fhot. This parapet is cut in¬
to embraflures, for the cannon to fire through. The
height of the embraflures, on the infide, is about three
feet; but they go Hoping lower to the outfide. Their
widenefs is two or three feet, but open to fix or feven
on the outfide. The mafs of earth that is betwixt
two embraflures, is called the merlon. The platform
of a battery is a floor of planks and fleepers, to keep
the wheels of the guns from finking into the earth ;
and is always made floping towards the embraffures,
both to hinder the reverfe, and to facilitate the bring¬
ing back of the gun.
Battery of mortars differs from a battery of guns,
for it is funk into the ground, and has no embraf¬
fures.
fZnjyj-BATTERiES are twb batteries, which play athwart
one another, upon the fame thing, forming there an
angle, and beating with more violence and deftru<fHon;
becaufe what one bullet (hakes, the other beats down.
Battery funk or buried, is when its platform is funk,
or let down into the ground, fo that there muft be
trenches cut in the earth, againft the muzzles of the
guns, for them to fire out at, and to ferve for em¬
braffures.
Battery d'enf lade, is one that fcours, or fweeps the
w'hole length of a ftraight line.
Battery en echarpe is that which plays obqliuely.
Bat-
BAT (
Battery i/i? reverfe, that which plays upon the enemy’s
back.
Camerade Battery is when feveral guns piay at the
fame time upon one place.
Battery, in law, the ftxiking, beating, or offering
any violence to another perfon, for which damages
may be recovered.
BATTEURS or Scouts, are horfemen fent
out before, and on the wings of an army, one, two,
or three miles, to make difcoveries.
BATTLE, a general engagement between two armies,
in a country lufficiently open for them to encounter in
front, and at the fame time.
Other great aftions, though of a longer duration, and
even attended with a greater daughter, are only called
fights.
Naval Battle, the fame with a fea-fight, or engage¬
ment between two fleets of men of war.
Before a naval battle, every fquadron ufually fubdi-
vides itfelf into three equal divifions, with a referve
of certain Ihips out of every fquadron to bring up
their rear. Every one of thefe, obferving a due birth
and diftance, are in the battle to fecond one another ;
and the better to avoid confufion and failing foul of
each other, to charge, difcharge, and fall off, by
threes or fives, more or lofs, as the fleet is greater or
fmaller. The fhips of referve are inftrufted either to
fuccour and relieve thofe that are any way in danger;
or to fupply, and put themfelves in the place of thofe
that fhall be made unferviceable.
As for a fleet confiding but of few (hips, when ob¬
liged to fight in an open fea, it fliould be brought up
to battle in only one front, with the chief admiral in
the middle of them, and on each fide of him the
ftrongefl: and bed provided fliips of the fleet.
Battle is alfo ufed figuratively, for a reprefentation >
of a battle in fculpture, painting, and the like.
BATTLE-rty.^/, in cock-fighting, a fight between three,
five, or feven cocks all engaged together, fo that the
cock which dands longed gets the day.
Battle-ax, a kind of halbard, fird introduced into.
England by the Danes;
BATTLEMENTS, in architedlure, are indentures or
notches in the top of a wall or other building, in the
form of embraffureSj for the fake of looking though
them.
BATTOLOGY, in grammar, a fuperfluons repetition
of fome words or things.
BATTON, Batoon, or Baston, SccBaston.
BATTORY, in commerce, a name given by the Hanfe
towns to their country-houfes and warehoufes in fo¬
reign countries. The principal battories were at Lon¬
don, Archangel, Novogorod, Lilbon, Venice, and
Antwerp.
BATTUS, an order of penitents at Avignon, and in
Provence, whofe piety carries them, to exercife very
fevere difcipline upon themfelves, both in public and
private.
jBATUECOS, or Los Batuecos, a people of Spain in
the kingdom,of Leon, that inhabit, the mountains be-
131 ) BAY
tween Salamanca and Corica, and are thought to be
defcended from the Goths
BATZ, a copper coin mixed with fome filver, and cur¬
rent at different rates, according to the alloy, in Nu¬
remberg, Bafil, Fribourg, Lucerne, and other cities
of Germany and Switzerland.
BAVARIA, one of the circles of the German empire,
lying between Aultria on the eaff, and Swabia on the
wed.
The duke of Bavaria is one of the nine ele&ors.
See Elector.
BAVAY, a fmall town in the province of Hainalt in
French Flanders, about twelve miles fouth-wed of
Mons, in 30 40 E. long, and 50° 25' N. lat.
BAUHINIA, in botany, a genus of the decandria mo-
nogynia clafs. The calix has five divifions, and is de¬
ciduous ; the petals are open, oblong, and inferred by
claws into the calix. The fpecies are eight, all na¬
tives of the Indies.
BAVINS, in the military art, denote brulh-faggots,
with the brulh at length.
BAUM, in botany. See Melissa.
BAURAC, a name ancienty ufed for nitre.
BAUTZEN, the chief town of Lufatia in Germany, a-
bout thirty-five miles north-ead of Drefden, in 140 3c/
E. long, and 510 15' N. Jat.
BAWLING, among fportfmen, the fame with babbling.
See Babbling.
BAY, in geography, an arm of the fea Ihooting up into
the land, and terminating in a nook. It is a kind of
leffer gulf, bigger than a creek, and is larger in its
middle within than at its entrance. The larged and
mod noted bays in the world are thofe of Bifcay,
Bengal, Hudfon’s, Panama,
Bay, among farmers, a term ufed to fignify the magni¬
tude of a barn • as, if a barn confids of a floor and two
heads, where they lay corn, they call it a barn of tnuo
bays. The bays are from fourteen to twenty feet long.
Bay denotes like wife a pound- head, made to keep in
dore of water for driving the wheels of the furnace or
hammer belonging to an iron-mill, by the dream that
comes thence through a flood-gate, called the pen-Jiock.
Bay is alfo one of the colours of the hair of horfes, in¬
clining to red, and coming pretty near the colour of a ■
chefnut. There are five different gradations of the
bay-colour, viz. chefnut-bay, light-bay, yellow-bay
or dun-day, bloody-bay, which is alfo called fcarlet-
bay, and the brown-bay.
Bay, among huntfmen. Deer are faid to dand at bay, .
when, after being hard run, they turn dead againd the
hounds.
BAY-?r<?e, See Laurus.
Bay-/^//. See Salt.
BAYEUX, a city of Normandy in France, about fif¬
teen miles north-wed of Caen, in 50' W. long, and
490 20' N. lat.
BAYONET, in the military art, a fhort broad dagger, .
formerly with a round handle fitted for the bore of a
firelock, to be fixed there after the foldier had fired ; .
but they are now made with iron handies and rings,
that-:
3 E A
that .go over the muzzle of the firelock, and are fcrew-
ed fad, fo that the foldier fires with his bayonet on
the muzzle of his piece, and is ready to aft again!! the
horfe.
BAYONNE, a large city of Gafcony in France, fitua-
ted on the river Adour, near the bay of Bifcay, in
i° 20' W. long, and 430 go' N. lat.
BAYS, in commerce, a fort of open woollen duff, ha¬
ving a long nap, fometimes frized, and fometimes not.
This duff is without wale, and is wrought in a loom
with two treddles, like flannel. It is chiefly manu-
faftured at Colchefler and Bockin in Efl’ex, where
there is a hall called the Dutch lay-hall or raw-hall.
The exportation of bays was formerly much more con-
fiderable than at prefent that the French have learn¬
ed to imitate them. However, the Englifh bays are
dill fent in great quantities to Spain and Portugal,
and even to Italy. Their chief ufe is for drefling the
monks and nuns, and for linings, efpecially in the ar¬
my. The looking-glafs makers alfo ufe them behind
their glafies, to preferve the tin or quickfilver; and
the cafe-makers, to line their cafes. The breadth of
bays is commonly a yard and a half, a yard and three
quarters, or two yards, by 42 to 48 in length. Thofe
of a yard and three quarters are mod proper for. the
Spanifli trade.
BAZAR, Bazari, orBAZAARD, a place defigned for
trade among the eadern nations, particularly the Per-
fians, fome of which are open at top, like the market¬
places of Europe ; others are covered with high-vault¬
ed ceilings, and adorned with domes to give light. In
the fird, they fell ony the lefs precious and mod bulky
commodities ; whereas, in the latter, are the drops of
thofe merchants who fell jewels, rich duffs, wrought
plate, &c.
BAZAS, a town of Guienne in France, about thirty
miles fouth of Bourdeaux, in 2j' W. long, and 440
20 N. lat.
BAZAT, or Baza, in commerce, a long, fine, fpun
cotton, which comes from Jerufalem, whence it is alfo
called Jerufalem-cotton.
BDELLIUM, is a gummy refinous concreted juice,
brought from Arabia and the E. Indies, in globes of
different figures and magnitudes It is of a darkred-
difh brown colour, and, in appearance, fomewhat re-
fembles myrrh; and is recommended as a fudorific,
diuretic, and uterine; and in external applications, for
maturating tumours, &c. In the prefent praftice, it
is fcarce otherwife made ufe of, than as an ingredient
' in theriaca.
BEACHY-HEAD, a cape or promontory on the coad
of Suffex, between Hadings and Shoreham.
BEACON, any public fignal, to give warning againd
rocks, fhelves, invafions, <bc.
BEACONAGE, a tax or farm paid for the ufe and
maintenance of a beacon. Trinity-houfe is empowered
to levy this tax by aft of parliament.
BEACONFIELD, a market-town of Buckinghamfhire,
twenty-two miles wed of London, in 30' W. long,
and 51° 30' N. lat.
B E A
BEAD, a fmall glafs ball, made in imitation of pearl,
and ufed in necklaces, &c.
Bead, in architefture, a round moulding, commonly
made upon the edge of a piece of duff, in the Corin¬
thian and Roman orders, cut or carved in fhort em-
bofl’ments, like beads in necklaces.
BEAD-/>roi?/', among didillers, a fallacious way of deter¬
mining the drength of fpirits, from the continuance of
the bubbles, or beads, raifed by fhaking a fmall quan¬
tity of them in a phial.
BEAD-ro//, among papids, a lid of fuch perfons, for the
red of whofe fouls they are obliged to repeat a certain
number of prayers, which they count by means of their
beads.
BEADLE, a meffenger or apparitor of a court, who
cites perfons to appear and anlwer in the court to what
is alledged againd them.
Beadle is alfo an officer at an univerfity, whofe chief
bufinefs it is to walk before the mafters with a mace,
at all public proceflions.
BEAGLE, the name of a particular kind of hunting-
dogs, of which there are feveral forts, viz. the fou-
thern beagle, which is fomething lefs than the deep-
mouthed hound, and fomething thicker and fhorter ;
the fleet-nothern, or cat-beagle, which is fmaller and
of a finer fhape than the fouthern beagle, and is a hard
runner: There is alfo a very fmall beagle, not bigger
than a lady’s lap-dog.
BEAK, the bill or nib of a bird.
Beak, in architefture, the fmall fillet left on the head
of a larmier, which forms a canal, and makes a kind
of pendant.
Chin Beak, a moulding the fame as the quarter-round,
except that its fituation is inverted: This is very fre¬
quent in modern buildings, though few examples of it
are found in the ancient.
Beak, or Beak-^J, of a fltip, that part without the
fliip, before the fore-caftle, which is faftened to the
ftem, and is fupported by the main knee.
BEAKED, in heraldry, a term ufed to exprefs the
beak or bill of a bird. When the beak and legs of a '
fowl are of a different tinfture from the body, we
fay beaked and membered of fuch a tinfture.
BEARING, among cock-fighters, is when one cock
holds another by his bill, and ftrikes him with his fpurs
or gafflers at the fame time.
BEAM, in architefture, the largeft piece of wood in a
building, which lies crofs the walls, and ferves to fup-
port the principal rafters of the roof, and into which
the feet of thefe rafters are framed.
Beams of a Jhip are the great main crofs-timbers which
hold the fides of the Ihip from falling together, and which
alfo fupport the decks and orloj>s : The main beam is
next the main-maff , and from it they are reckoned by
firft, fecond, third beam, tec. the greateft beam of all
is called the mid-fhip beam. See Ship.
’Bi.A.in.-compafs, an inftrument confiding of a fquare wood¬
en or brafs beam, having Hiding fockevs, that carry
fteel or pencil points; they are ufed for defcribing
large circles, where the common compaffes are ufelefs.
Beam,
( 532 )
B E A ( 533 ) B E A
Beam, in heraldry, the term ufed to exprefs the main
horn of a hart or buck.
Beam, among hunters, the main ftem of a deer’s head,
or that part which bears the antlers, royals, and tops.
Chaniber-}iv.\ui. See C h am be
Beam is alfo the name of a fort of fiery meteor in the
fliape of a pillar ; alfo a ray of the fun.
Beam;/?//;'#^, in building, the filling up of the vacant
fpace between the raifon and roof, with Hones or
bricks laid between the rafters on the raifon, and
plaftered on with loam, where the garrets are not par¬
geted, or plaftered, as in country places, where they
do not parget or plafter their garrets.
Beam of an anchor, the longeft part of it, called alfo
the Jhank.
‘Bzku-feathers, in falconry, the longeft feathers of a
hawk’s wing.
Beam alfo denotes the lath, or iron, of a pair of fcales;
fometimes the whole apparatus for weighing of goods
is fo called: Thus we fay, it weighs fo much at the
king’s beam.
Beam of a plough, that in which all the parts of the
plough-tail are fixed. See Agriculture.
Beam, or Roller, among weavers, a long and thick
wooden cylinder, placed length-ways on the back-part
of the loom of thofe who work with a Ihuttle.
That cylinder, on which the fluff is rolled as it is
weaved, is alfo called the beam or roller, and is pla¬
ced on the fore-part of the loom.
BEAN, in botany. See Vicia.
BEAR, in zoology. See Uasus.
Bear, in aftronomy. See Ursa.
Bear, in heraldry. He that has a coat of arms is faid
to bear in it the feveral charges or ordinaries that are
in his efcutcheon.
Bear, in gunnery. A piece of ordnance is faid to come
to bear, when it lies right with, or direftly againft the
mark.
BEARALSTON, a borough of Devonfhire, fituated on
the river Tamar, about ten miles north of Plymouth,
in 40 30' W. long, and 50° 35' N. lat. It fgnds
two members to parliament.
’Rzkx.'s-breech. See Acanthus.
BEARD, the hair growing on the chin, and adjacent
parts of the face, chiefly of adults and males. See
-Anatomy, p. 256.
Various have been the ceremonies and cuftoms
of moft nations in regard of the beard. The Tar¬
tars, out of a religious principle, waged a long and
bloody war with the Perfians, declaring them infi¬
dels merely becaufe they would not cut their whifk-
ers after the rite of Tartary: And we find, that a
confiderable branch of the religion of the ancients
confifted in the management of their beard. Ecclefi-
aftics have fometimes been enjoined to wear, and at
other times have been forbid the wearing, the beard ;
and the Greek and Romifh churches have been a .long
time by the ears, about their beards. To let the
beard grow, in fome countries, is a token of mourn¬
ing, as to fhave it is the like in others.
The Greeks wore their beards till the time of Alex-
Vol. I. No. 23. 3
ander the Great, that prince having ordered the Mace¬
donians to be fhaved, for fear it fhould give a handle
to their enemies. The Romans did not begin to
(have till the year of Rome 454. Nor did the Ruf¬
fians cut their beards till within thefe few years, that
Peter the Great, notwithftanding his injunction upon
them to fhave, was obliged to keep on foot a number of
officers to cut off, by violence, the beards of fuch as
would not otherwife part with them.
Beard of a comet, the rays which the comet emits to¬
wards that part of the heaven to which its proper mo¬
tion feems to direCt it, in which the beard of a comet
is diftinguiffied from the tail, which is underftood of
the rays emitted towards that part from whence its
motion feems to carry it.
Beard of a horfe, that part underneath the lower man¬
dible on the outfide and above the chin, which bears
the curb. It is alfo called the chuck.
It ffiould have but little fleffi upon it, without any
chops, hardnefs, or fwelling, and neither too high rai¬
led nor too flat, but fuch as the curb may reft in its
right place.
BEARDED huflt, among florifts, is a hulk, hairy on
the edges.
BEARDING of‘wool. See Wool.
BEARER, in architecture, a poll, or brick-wall, trim¬
med up between the two ends of a piece of timber, to
ffiorten its bearing, or to prevent its bearing with the
whole weight at the ends only.
Bearer of a bill of exchange, the perfon in whofe
hands the bill is, and in favour of whom the laft or¬
der was made.
When a bill is made payable to the bearer, it is un¬
derftood to be payable to him in whofe hands it is, af¬
ter it becomes due. See Bill.
BEARERS, in heraldry. See Supporters.
CVo/}-Bearers. See Cross.
BEARING, in navigation and geography, the fituation
of one place from another, with regard to the points of
the compafs; or the angle which a line drawn through
the two places, makes with the meridians of each.
Bearing, in the fea language. When a ffiip fails to¬
wards the ffiore, before the wind, ffie is faid bear in
with the land or harbour. To let the ffiip fail more
before the wind, is to bear up. To put her right be¬
fore the wind, is to bear round. A ffiip that keeps off
from the land,” is faid to bear off. When a ihip that
was to windward comes under another fliip’s ftern, and
fo gives her the wind, ffie is faid to bear under her
lee, <bc. There is another fenfe of this word, in re¬
ference to the burden of a ffiip; for they fay a ffiip
bears, when havipg too flender or lean a quarter, Ihe
will fink too deep into the water with an over light
freight, and thereby can carry but a fmall quantity
of goods. See Navigation.
Bearing of a.piece.of timber, among carpenters, the
fpace either between the two fixed extremes thereof,
when it has no other fupport, which they call bearing
at length, or between one extreme and a poft, brick-
wall, 6'c. trimmed up between the ends to ffioi ten its
bearings.
6 T High
t
B E A ( 534 ) B E A
High Bearing cocky one larger than the cock he fights
with.
Bearing claws, among cock-fighters, the foremoft toes
of a cock. If thefe are hurt or gravelled, he cannot fight.
BEARN, a province in the fouth of France, bounded by
Gafcony on the North, and by the Pyrenean moun¬
tains, which feparate it from Spain, on the fouth.
BEAST among gamefters, a game at cards, played in
this manner: The belt cards are the king, queen, tic,
whereof they make three heaps, the king, the play,
and triolet.
Three, four, or five may play; and to every one is
dealt five cards. However, before the play begins,
every one (lakes to the three heaps. He that wins
mod tricks, takes up the heap called the play: He
that hath the king, takes up the heap fo called; and
he that hath three of any fort, that is, three fours,
three fives, three fixes, tic. takes up the triolet heap.
Beast, in a general fenfe, an appellation given to all four-
footed animals, fit either for food, labour, or fport.
Beasts of burden, in a commercial fenfe, all four-footed
animals which ferve to carry merchandizes on their
backs. The beads generally ufed for this purpofe,
are elephants, dromedaries, camels, horfes, mules,
afles, and the iheep of Mexico and Peru.
Beasts of the chace are five; viz. the buck, the doe,
the fox, the roe, and the martin.
Beasts and fowls of the warren, are the hare, the co¬
ney, the pheafant, and partridge.
Beasts of the fored are the hart, hind, hare, boar,
and wolf.
if^Aer-BEASTS. See Rother.
BEAT, in a general figmfication, fignifies to chadife,
(trike, knock, or vanqudh,
This word has feveral other fignifications in the ma¬
nufactures, and in the arts and trades. Sometimes it
fignifies to forge and hammer, in which fenfe fmiths
and farriers fay, to beat iron; fometimes it means to
pound, to reduce into powder: Thus we fay, to beat
drugs, to beat pepper, to beat fpices ; that is to fay, to
pulverife them.
Beat o/' drum, in the military art, is to give notice by
beat of drum of a fudden danger ; or, that fcattered
foldiers may repair to their arms and quarters, is to
beat an alarm, or to arms ; alfo to fignify, by diffe-
i ent manners of founding a drum, that the foldiers
are to fall on the enemy; to retreat before, in, or after
an attack; to move, or march, from one place to an¬
other ; to treat upon terms, or confer with the ene¬
my ; to permit the fbldiers to come out of their quar¬
ters at break of day: to order to repair to their co¬
lours, tic. is to beat a charge, a retreat, a march, tic.
BEATIFIC Vision. See Vision.
BEATIFICATION, among papids, an aCl by which the
pope declares a perfon beatified, or blefied after death.
This is the fird dep towards canonization, and dif¬
fers from it; becaufe in the former, the pope does not
aCl as a judge, determining the date of the beatified,
but only gives a privilege to certain perfons to honour
him by a particular religious worlhip, without incur¬
ring the penalty of fuperditious worlhip; whereas in
canonization, the pope fpeaks like a judge, and deter¬
mines upon the date of the canonized.
No perfon can be beatified till fifty years after death.
AH certificates.or attedations of virtues and miracles
are examined before the congregation of rites: The exa¬
mination continues for feveral years, after which his ho-
linefs decrees the beatification. The corpfe and relics of
the future faint are thenceforth expofed to the veneration
of every body; his images are crowned with rays, and
. a particular office is fet apart for him.
BEATING, or Pulsation, in medicine, the reciprocal
agitation or palpitation of the heart or pulfe. See
Pulse.
Beating atidfiver. See Gold-beating, tic.
Beating with hunters, a term ufed of a dag, which
runs fii d one way, and then another. He is then faid
to beat up and down.
The noife made by conies in rutting time is alfo
called beating or tapping.
BEATS, in a watch or clock, are the drokes made by
the fangs or pallets of the fpindle of the ballance, or
of the pads in a royal pendulum. See Watch¬
making.
BEAUCxAIRE, a town of Languedoc, fituated on the
wedern fhore of the river Rhone, about feven miles
north of Arles; in 40 4c/ E. long, and 43 0 40^ N. lat.
BEAVER, in zoology. See Castor.
BEAUFORT, a town of the duchy of An]ou in France,
fituated 1 j miles end of Angers; in E. long, and
470 30' N. lat.
Beaufort is alfo a town of Savoy, about 30 miles ead
of Chamberry; in 6° 40' E. long, and 45 0 30'N. lat,
BEAUGENCY, a town of Orleanois, in France ; fitu¬
ated on the river Loire, about 15 miles fouth-wed of
Orleans, in.i0 ^6' E. long, and 47° 48^. lat.
BEAUJEU, a town of the Lyonois in France, about 25
miles north-wed of Lyons; in 4° 30' E. long, and
46° 1 s' N. lat.
BEAUJOLOIS, the fouth-ead divifionof the Lyonois,
and fo called from Beaujeu.
BEAUMARIS, a market town of Anglefey in Wales ;
fituated about nine miles north of Bangor, in 40 15'
W. long, and 53° 25' N. lat.
BEAU-MASS. See Mass.
BEAUMONT, a town of Hainalt, about 17 milts fouth-
ead of Mons ; in 40 15' E. long, and 50° 20' N. lat.
Beaumont is alfo a town of France, about 16 miles
fouth of Alen$on ; in 5' E. long, and 48° 20' N. lat,
BEAUNE, a town of Burgundy in France, frtuated in $°
20 E. long, and 47° 2 N. lat.
BEAUTY, in its native fignification, is appropriated to
objefts of fight. Objefts of the other fenfes may be
agreeable, fuch as the founds of mufical indruments,
the fmoothnefs and foftnefs of feme furfaces ; but the
agreeablenefs caUed beauty belongs to objeftsof fight.
Objects of fight are more complex than thofe of any
other fenfe: In the fimpled, we perceive colour, fi¬
gure, length, breadth, thicknefs. A tree is compofed
of a trunk, branches, and leaves; it has colour, figure*
fize, and fometimes motion : By means of each of thefer
particulars, feparately confidered, it appears beauti-
B E A ( 535 ) . B E A
ful; but a complex perception of the whole greatly
augments the beauty of the objeft. The human body
is a compofition of nurhberlefs beauties arifing from
the parts and qualities of the objeift, various colours,
various motions, figures, fize, <bc. all united in one
complex objeft, and flriking the eye with combined
force. Hence it is, that beauty, a quality fo remark¬
able in vifible objedts, lends its name to every thing
that is eminently agreeable. Thus, by a figure of
fpeech, we fay, a beautiful found, a beautiful thought,
a beautiful difcovery, fcc.
Confidering attentively the beauty of vifible objeds,
two kinds are difcovered. The firlt may be termed
intrinfic beauty, becaufe it is difcovered in a fingle
objed, without relation to any other; the other may
be termed relative, being founded on the relation of
objeds. Intrinfic beauty is a perception of fenfe mere¬
ly; for to perceive the beauty of a fpreading oak, or
of a flowing river, no more is required but fingly an
ad of vifion. Relative beauty is accompanied with an
ad of underftanding and refledion ; for we perceive
not the relative beauty of a fine inllrument or engine,
until we learn its ufe and delHnation. In a word, in¬
trinfic beauty is ultimate; and reLtive beauty is that
of means relating to fome good end or purpofe. Thefe
different beauties agree in one capital circumftance,
that both are equally perceived as belonging to the ob-
jed; which will be readily admitted with refped to
intrinfic beauty, but is not fo obvious with refped to
the other. The utility of the plough, for example,
may make an objed of admiration or of defire; but
why fhould utility make it beautiful ? A natural pro-
penfity of the human mind will explain this difficulty :
By an eafy tranfition of ideas, the beauty of the effed
is transferred to the caufe, and is perceived as one of
the qualities of the caufe: Thus a fubjed void of in-
trinfic beauty, appears beautiful by its utility; a
dwelling-houfe void of all regularity, is however beau¬
tiful in the view of convenience ; and the want of fym-
metry in a tree, will not prevent its appearing beauti¬
ful, if it be known to produce good fruit.
When thefe two beauties concur in any objed, it
appears delightful. Every member of the human body
pofTelfes both in a high degree.
The beauty of utility, being accurately proportioned
to the degree of utility, requires no illullration : But
intrinfic beauty being more complex, cannot be handled
diftindly without being analyfed. If a tree be beaUr
tiful by means of its colour, figure, motion, fize, <bc.
it is in reality polfeffed of fo many different beauties.
The beauty of colour is too familiar to need explana¬
tion. The beauty of figure is more; for example,
viewing any body as a whole, the beauty of its figure
arifes from regularity and fimplicity; viewing the parts
with relation to each other, uniformity, proportion,
and order, contribute to its beauty. Idle beauties of
grandeur and motion muff be confidered feparately.
See Grandeur, and Motion.
We (hall here make a few obfervations on fimplicity,
which may be of ufe in examining the beauty of fingle
objeds. A multitude of objeds crowding into the
mind at once, diflurb the attention, and pafs without
making any lading impreffion : In the fame manner, even
a fingle objeft, confiding of a multiplicity of parts, e-
quals not, in drength of impreffion, a more fimple ob¬
jed comprehended in one view. This judifies fimplicity
in works of art, as oppofed to complicated circumdances
and crowded ornaments.
It would be endlels to enumerate the effeds that are
produced by the various combinations of the principles
of beauty. A few examples will be fufficjent to give
the reader fome idea of this fubjed. A circle and a
fquare are each perfedly regular; a fquare, however, is
lefs beautiful than a circle; and the reafon is, that the
attention is divided among the fides and angles of a
fquare; whereas the circumference of a circle, being a
fingle objed, makes one entire impreffion: And thus
fimplicity contributes to beauty. For the fame reafon,
a fquare is more beautiful than a hexagon or odagon.
A Iquare is likewife more beautiful than a parallelogram,
becaufe it is more regular and uniform. But this holds
with refped to intrinfic beauty only; for in many in¬
dances, as in the doors and windows of a dwelling-houfe,
utility turns the fcales on the fide of the parallelogram.
Again, a parallelogram depends, for its beauty, on
the proportion of its fides: A great inequality of its
fides annihilates its beauty: Approximation toward e-
quality hath the fame effed; for proportion there dege¬
nerates into imperfed uniformity, and the figure appcarr
an unfuccefsful attempt toward a fquare. And hence
proportion contributes to beauty.
An equilateral triangle yields not to a fquare in regu¬
larity nor in uniformity of parts, and it is more firnple.
But an equilateral triangle is lefs beautiful than afquare ;
which mud be owing to inferiority of order in the pofition
of its parts; the order ariling from the equal inclination
of the fides of fuch an angle, is more obicure than the
parallelifm of the fides of a fquare. And hence order
contributes to beauty not lefs than fimplicity, regularity,
or proportion.
Uniformity is fingular in one circumdance, that it is
apt to difgud by excefs. A number of things dedined
for the fame ufe, as windows, chairs, cannot be too
uniform. But a fcrupulous uniformity of parts in a large
garden or field, is far from being agreeable.
In all the works of nature, fimplicity makes a capital
figure. It alfo makes a figure in works of art: Profufip
ornament in painting, gardening, or architedure, as well as
in drefs or in language, {hows a mean or corrupted fade.
Simplicity in behaviour and manners has an inchanting
effed, and never fails to gain our affedion. Very dif¬
ferent are the artificial manners of modern times. A
gradual progrefs from fimplicity to complex forms and
profufe ornament, feems to be the fate of all the fine
arts; refembling behaviour, which from original candor
and fimplieity, has degenerated into duplicity of heart
and artificial refinements. At prefent literary produc¬
tions are crowded with words, epithets,.figures: In mu-
fic, fentiment is negleded for the luxury of harmony,
and for difficult movement.
With regard to the final caufe of beauty, one thing is
evident, that our relilh of regularity, uniformity, pro¬
portion.
B E C ( 53<5 ) BED
portion, order, and fimplicity contributes greatly to en¬
hance the beauty of the objefts that furround us, and
of courfe tends to our happinefs. We may be con¬
firmed in this thought, upon reflecting, that our taite
for thefe particulars is not accidental, but uniform and
univerfal, making a branch of our nature. At the
fame time, regularity, uniformity, order, and fim¬
plicity, contribute, each of them, to readinefs of ap-
prehenfion, and enable us to form more diftinCt ideas
of objects than can be done where thefe particulars are
wanting. In fome inftances, as in animals, propor¬
tion is evidently connected with utility, and is the
more agreeable on that account.
Beauty, in many inftances, promotes induflry, and
as it is frequently connected with utility, it proves an
additional incitement to enrich our fields and improve
our manufactures. Thefe, however, are but flight
elfeCts, compared with the connections that are form¬
ed among individuals in fociety by means of beauty.
The qualifications of the head and heart are undoubt¬
edly the moft folid and mofl: permanent foundations of
fuch connections : But, as external beauty lies more
in view, and is more obvious to the bulk of mankind
than the qualities now mentioned, the fenfe of beauty
has a more extenfive influence in forming thefe con¬
nections. At any rate, it concurs in an eminent degree
with mental qualifications, in producing focial inter-
courfe, mutual good-will, and confequently mutual aid
and fupport, which are the life of fociety. It muft not
however be overlooked, that the fenfe of beauty does
not tend to advance the interefts of fociety, but when
in a due mean with refpeCl to ftrength. Love, in par¬
ticular, arifing from a fenfe of beauty, lofes, when
exceflive, its focial character ; the appetite for gratifi¬
cation, prevailing over affeCtion for the beloved ob¬
ject, is ungovernable, and tends violently to its end,
regardlefs of the mifery that muft follow. Love, in
this ftate, is no longer a fweet agreeable paflion ; it
becomes painful, like hunger or third, and produceth
no happinefs, but in the inftant of fruition. This fug-
gefts an important leflbn, that moderation in our de¬
fires and appetites, which fits us for doing our duty,
contributes at the fame time the moft to happinefs;
even focial paffions, when moderate, are more plea-
fant than when they fwell beyond proper bounds.
Beauty, in architecture, painting, and other arts, is
• the harmony and juftnefs of the whole compofition
taken together.
BEAUVIN, a city of Burgundy, in France, about 15
miles north of Chalons, in 40 50' E. long, and 47°
N. lat.
BEAUVOIR, a port-town of France, about 25 miles
fouth-weft of Nants, in 20 W. long, and 47° N. lat.
BEAUVOIS, a city of the ifle of France, about 43
miles north of Paris, in 20 20 E. long, and 40 30'
N. lat.
BECAH, or Bekah, in Hebrew antiquity, a Jewifh
coin, equal to 13^^. of our money.
BECALM, in a general fenfe, fignifies to appeafe, to
allay.
Becalm, in the fea language. A fhip is faid to be be¬
calmed, when there is not a breath of wind to fill the
fails.
BECANER, the capital of the territory of Becar in In¬
dia, fituated on the river Ganges, in 83° E. long,
and 28° N. lat.
BECCABUNGA, in botany, the trivial name of a fpe-
cies of veronica. See Veronica.
BECHICS, medicines defigned to relieve coughs, be¬
ing the fame with what we call expectorants and pec¬
torals.
BECHIN, a town of Bohemia, in 150 E. long, and
490 14' N. lat.
BECKENRIEDT, a town of Switzerland in the can¬
ton of Underwaldt.
BECZAU, a town of Bohemia, upon the river Topel.
BED, a machine for ftretching and compofing the body
on, for eafe, or fleep, confifting generally of feathers
inclofed in a ticken cafe. There are varieties of
beds, as a ftanding-bed, a fettee-bed, a tent-bed, a
truckle-bed, <bc.
Bed of jujhce, in the French cuftoms, a throne upon
which the king is feated when he goes to the parlia¬
ment, The king never holds a bed of juftice unlefs
for affairs that concern the ftate, and then all the offi¬
cers of parliament are cloathed in fcarlet robes.
Bed of the carriage of a great gun, a thick plank, that
lies under the piece ; being, as it were, the body of
the carriage.
Bed, in mafonry, a courfe, or range of ftones ; and the
joint of the bed is the mortar between two ftones,
placed over each other.
Bed, in gardening, fquare or oblong pieces of ground,
in a garden, raifed a little above the level of the ad¬
joining ground, and wherein they fow feeds, or plant
roots.
/L/-Bed. See Hot-bed.
Lords of the Bed-chamber, in the Britifh cuftoms, ten
lords who attend in their turns, each a week ; during
which time they lie in the king’s bed-chamber, and
wait on him when he dines in private.
BEDAL, a market-town of Yorkfhire, eight miles
fouth of Richmond, in i° 20 W. long, and 540 20
N. lat.
-BEDEL. See Beadle.
BEDEREPE, a cuftomary fervice, by which tenants
were anciently bound to reap their landlord’s corn in
harveft-time.
BEDFORD, the county-town of Bedfordfhire, fituated
on the river Oufe, about 22 miles fouth-weft of Cam¬
bridge, in 20 W. long, and 52° io/ N. lat.
BED-MOULDING, in architefture, a term ufed for
thofe members of a corniche, which are placed below
the coronet; and now ufually confifts of an ogee, a
lift, a large boultine, and another lift under the co¬
ronet.
BEDOUINS, in the Arabian cuftoms, tribes of Arabs,
who live in tents, and are difperfed all over Arabia,
Egypt, and the north of Africa.
BEDWIN, a borough-town of Wihfhire, about 18
miles north-weft of Salifbury, in 10 40' W. long, and
510 2j' N. lat.
BEE,
BEG ( 537 ) BEL
BEE, in zoology. See Apis.
Bee-eater, in zoology. See Merops.
BEECH, in botany. See Fagus.
Beech-galls, hard protuberances found on the leaves
of the beech, wherein are lodged the maggot^ of a
certain fly.
Beech-mast, the fruit of the beech-tree, faid to be
good for fattening hogs, deer, <be.
Beech-oil, an oil drawn by expreflion from the mail
of the beech-tree, after it has been flielled and pound¬
ed. This oil is very common in Picardy, and ufed
there, and in other parts of France, inftead of butter ;
but moft of thofe who take a great deal of it, com¬
plain of pains and a heavinefs in the ftomach.
BEELE, a kind of pick-ax, ufed by the miners for fe-
parating the ores from the rocks in which they lie :
This inftrument is called a lubber by the miners of
Cornwall.
BEER, a common and well-known liquor, made with
malt and hops. See Brewing,
Beer, among weavers, a term that fignifies nineteen
ends of yarn, running all together the whole length of
the cloth.
Beer-measure. See Measure.
BEESTING, a term ufed by country-people for the firfl:
milk taken from a cow after calving.
BEET, in botany. See Beta.
BEETLE, in the hiftory of infefts. See Scara-
bjeus.
Beetle alfo denotes a wooden inftrument for driving
piles. It is likewife called a Jtamper, and by
paviors a rammer.
BEFORT, a town of Alface, fubje&to France, and fi-
tuated about 15 miles north of Bafd, in 70 E. long,
and qys 35' N. lat.
BEG, or Bey, in the Turkifh affairs. See Bey.
BEGGAR, one who begs alms.
BEGHARDI, a certain fe<S of heretics, which arofe in
Germany, and in the Low Countries, about the end
of the 13th century. They made profeflion of the
monaftical life, without obferving celibacy ; and main¬
tained, that man could become as perfectJn this life,
.as he fliall be in heaven ; that every intelle<5tual na¬
ture is of itfelf happy, without the fuccour of grace;
and that he who is in this ftate of perfeftion ought to
perform no good works, nor worfliip the hoft.
BEGLER.BEG, a governor of one of the principal go¬
vernments in the Turkifli empire. There are two forts
of beglerbegs : The one have a certain revenue afligned
upon the cities, boroughs, and villages of their go¬
vernment, which they raife by power of the eommiflion
granted to them by the fultan ; the others have a cer¬
tain rent paid by the treafurer of the grand fignior.
They are become almoft independent; and have under
their jurifdidlion feveral fangiacs or particular govern¬
ments, and begs, agas, and other officers who obey
them.
BEGONIA, in botany, a genus of the polygamia mo-
noecia clafs. The hermaphrodite flower has no calix ;
the corolla has 5 petals ; it has many ftamina, and 3
flyli; the male has likewife no calix ; the corolla has
Vol. I. No. 21. 3
4 petals ; and has a great number of ftamina. There
is but one fpecies of begonia, viz. the obliqua, a na¬
tive of India,
BEGUARDI, or Beghardi. See Beghardi.
BEGUINS, congregations of devout young women, who
maintain themfelves by the work of their hands, lead¬
ing a middle kind of life between the fecular and re¬
ligious. Thefe focieties confift of feveral houfes placed
together in one inclofure, with one or more churches,
according to the number of beguins.
There is in every houfe a priorefs, v/ithout whofe
leave they cannot ftirout. Their vow is conceived in
thefe terms : Ipromife to be obedient and chajie. as
long as I continue in this beguinage. They obferve
a three years novitiate before they take the habit, and
the re&or of the parifh is their fuperior, but can do
nothing without the advice of eight beguins.
They are eftablilhed in feveral parts of Flanders.
BEHEADING, a capital punifhment, infli&ed by cut¬
ting off the head with an ax, fword, &c.
Among the Romans, beheading was a military pu¬
nifhment, performed at firft with an ax, but after¬
wards with a fword, as done at prefent in Holland and
France. In England the ax is preferred ; and in
Scotland they ufe, for this purpofe, a machine called
a, maiden.
BEHEN, in botany. See Cucubalus.
BEJA, a city of Alentejo, in Portugal, in 8° 40' W.
long, and 37° 5 j/ N. lat.
BEICHLINGEN, a city of Thuringia, in the circle of
Upper Saxony in Germany, in 110 25' E. long, and
51° id N. lat.
BEILA, a town of Piedmont in Italy, about thirty-two
miles north of Turin ; E. long. 70 45', and N.
lat. 450.
BEILSTEIN, a town of the landgraviate of Heffe
in Germany, fituated about 32 miles north of Mentz,
in 8° E. long, and 50° 30' N. lat.
BEIZA, or Beizath, in Hebrew antiquity, a word
fignifying an egg, was a certain meafure in ufe a-
mong the Jews. The beiza was likewife a gold coin,
weighing forty drachms, among the Perfians, who
gave out, that Philip of Macedon owed their king
Darius a thoufand beizaths or golden eggs, for tri¬
bute-money; and that Alexander the Great refufed
to pay them, faying, that the bird which laid thefe
eggs was flown into the other world.
BELAC, a fmall city of la Marche, in the Lyonnois;
E. long. i° 15', and N. lat. 46° 1 j'.
BELAY, in the fea-laqgukge, is to make faft the ropes
in their proper places.
BELCASTRO, a city of Calabria, in the kingdom of
Naples; E. long. 170 15', and N. lat. 390 15'.
BELCOE, a town of Ireland, fituated on Loch-ninny,
in the county of Farmanagh, and province of Uifter;
W. long. 8° b', and N. lat, 540 5'.
BELEM, a fortrefs on the north fide of the river Ta¬
gus, about three miles weft of Lilbon.
BELEMNITES, in natural hiftory, a fubftance con¬
cerning the nature of which there has been much dif-
pute. Some maintain it to be a petrified animal; others
f 6 U will
BEL ( 538 ) BEL
trill have it to be a foffi!, Linnasus refers the
kelemnites to the clafs of (hells with feveral cells.
The (hape of the belemnites is fometimes conical,
fometimes cylindrical; and they commonly confift of
a black horny kind of fubftance. Their length is from
two to eight inches ; and their diameter from the fixth
part of an inch to two or three inches. The inward
part confifts of rays; and there is generally a celh at
the large end, and a furrow running from top to bot¬
tom. Dr Plott fays, that when fcraped or burnt, they
fmell like horn. They are generally hollow about an
inch deep, and filled with gravel. Their colour is
various; fome are afh-coloured, others bluilh. They
are commonly found in gravel-pits. See Plate LI.
fig 21.
BELEZERO, the capital of a province of the fame
name, in Ruffia, fituated on the fouth-eaft (bore of
the white lake; E. long. 36°, and N. lat. 6o° 5c/.
BELFAST, a port-town of Ireland, in the county of
Antrim, and province of UKter; W. long. 6° 15',
N. lat. 54° 3s'.
BELFRY, that part of a fteeple where bells are hung,
or the timber frame whereby they are fupported.
BELGARDEN, a town of Eaftern Pomerania, in Ger¬
many, fubjedt to Pruffia; E. long. 160 5', and N.
lat. 54®.
BELGOROD, the capital of a province of the fame
name, in Ruflia, fituated almofl in the middle of that
empire; E. long. 37°, and N. lat. 51° 20.
Belgorod is alfo a fortified town of Beffarabia, in
Turky, fituated on the Black-fea, at the mouth of
the river Neifter; E. long. 31°, and N. lat. 46° 3c/.
BELGRADE, the capital of the province of Servia,
in European Turky, fituated on the fouth fide of the
Danube, in E. long. 21° 20/, and N. lat. 45°. It
was yielded to the Turks in 1739.
BELI oculus,, in natural hiftory. See Ocutus.
BELIEF, the affent of the mind to the truth of any
propofition. See Metaphysics.
BELL, a well known machine, ranked by muficians a-
mong the mufical inftruments of percufiion.
The metal of which a bell is made, is a compofition
of tin and copper, or pewter and copper; the propor¬
tion of one to the other is almoft twenty pounds of
pewter, or twenty-three pounds of tin, to one hundred
weight of copper.
Bell-metal is prohibited to be imported, as are
hawk-bells,
The condiment parts of a .bell are the body or bar¬
rel, the clapper on the infide, and the ear or cannon
on which it hangs to a large beam of wood,.
DA/«§--Belt,. See Pneumatics.
^Tc.h’L-foundery. SeeFouNDERY.
BELL'/ower, in.botany. See Campanula.
Bell-t.u?«/, in botany. See Jacea.
BELLADONA, in botany, the trivial name of a fpe-
cies of atropa. See At-ropa.
BELLCLAIRE, a town of Ireland, in the county of
Sligo, and province of Connaught, about twenty-three
miles fouth-wed of Sligo; W. long, 90 5', and N.
lat,.53° 5,$' *
BELLE, a town in French Flanders, about twelve
miles north-ead of Lifie; E. long. 20 4c/, N. lat.
50° 45'.
BELLENTS, a city of Switzerland, in 90 E. long..
and 46° N. lat.
BELLESM, a town of the Orleanois in France; E.
long. 40', N. lat. 48° 3c/.
BELLEY, a town of Burgundy in France, fituated on
the frontiers of Savoy, about fixteen miles north-wed
of Chamberry; E. long. 50 20',-N. lat. 45° 40'.
BELLEVILLE, a town of the Lyonois, in France,,
about nineteen miles north of Lyons; E. long. 40
45', N. lat. 46° S'.
BELLIDIASTRUM, in botany, a fynonime of a fpe-
cies of doronicum. See Doronicum.
BELLIDIOIDES, in botany, a fynonime of a fpecies
of chrylanthemum. See Chrysanthemum.
BELLING of hops denotes their opening and expanding
themfelves. See Hops.
BELLIS, or Daisy, in botany, a gemis of the fynge-
nefia polygarnia fuperflua clafs. The receptacle of the
bellis is naked-and conical; it has no pappus; the ca-
lix is hemifpherical, with djuamse of an equal fize ;
and the feeds are oval. There are two fpecies; viz.
the hortenfis, a native of feveral parts of Europe;
and the perennis, or common daify, a native of Bri¬
tain. The leaves of the perennis have a fubacid tade,
and are recommended as vulneraries, and in adhmas
and he&ic fevers.
BELLEISLE, an idand on the coad of Britany, in
France; in 30 W. long, and 47° 20 N. lat.
Bellisle is alfo an idand of America, on the coad of
New Britain.
It gives name to the dreights which fcparate New¬
foundland from New Britain; in 58° W. long, and
52° N. lat.
BELLON, a didemper common in countries where they
fmelt lead-ore. It is attended with languor, intole¬
rable pains and fenfation of gripings in the belly, and
generally codivenefs.
Beads, poultry, <bc. as well as men, are fubjedt to
this diforder : Hence a certain fpace round the fmelt-
ing houfes is called hellon-ground, becaufe it is dan¬
gerous for an animal to feed upon it.
BELLONARII, in Roman antiquity, the prieds of Bel-
lona, who, in honour of that goddefs, ufed to make
incifions in their body; and, after having gathered the
blood in the palm of their hand, give it to thofe who
were partakers of their myderies.
BELLONIA, in botany, a genus of the pentandria mo-
nogynia clafs. The corolla is rotated; the capfule
confids of one cell inclofing many feeds. There is
but one fpecies, viz. the afpera, a native of America.
BELLOWING, among fpoi tfmen, denotes the noife of
roes in rutting-time.
BELLOWS, a machine fo contrived as to expire and
infpire the air by turns,, by enlarging and contiadiing.
its capacity.
This machine is ufed in chambers and kitchens, in
forges, furnaces, and founderies, to blow tip the fire :
It ferves alfo fbr organs and other pneumatic indru-
mentSp,
B E M ( 539 ) BEN
ments, to give them a proper degree of air t All thefe
are of various conftrudiions, according to their diffe¬
rent purpofes; but in general they are compofed of two
flat boards, fometimes of an oval, fometimes of a tri¬
angular figure: Two or more hoops, bent according
to the figure of the boards, are placed between them ;
a piece of leather, broad in the middle, and narrow
at both ends, is nailed on the edges of the boards,
which it thus unites together; as allb on the hoops
which feparate the boards, that the leather may the
eafier open and fold again; a tube of iron, brafs, or
copper is fattened to the undermoft board, and there
is a valve within that covers the holes in the under¬
board to keep in the air.
Each pair of bellows imported is valued in the book
of rates at three (hillings and four pence, and pays
' duty whereof 6^^^. is drawn back on expor¬
tation. See Pneumatics.
BELLUNA, the capital of the Bellunefe, in the domi¬
nions of Venice, about 40 miles north of Padua ; in
120 40' E. long, and 46° 20' N. lat.
BELLY, in anatomy, the fame with what is more ufuajly
called abdomen. See p. 256.
BELOAPv, a ttone, otherwife called widuris. SeeWi-
dur 1 s.
BELOMANCY, a fort of divination by means of arrows,
pra&ifed in the eaft, and particularly in Arabia.
Belomancy has been performed different ways,
■whereof one was this: Suppbfe a parcel of arrows,
eleven or more of them being put into a bag ; thefe
were afterwards drawn out, and according as they
were marked or not, they judged of future events.
BELONE;, in ichthyology, the trivial name of a fpecies
of efox. See Esox.
BELT, in the military art, a leathern girdle for fuftain-
ing the arms, &c. of a foldier.
Belts, in afttonomy, two zones, or girdles, furround¬
ing the body of the planet of Jupiter, more lucid than
the reft, and of unequal breadth.
Belts, in geography, certain ttreights between the Ger¬
man ocean and the Baltic. The belts belong to the
king of Denmark, who exadts a toll from all (hips
which pafs through them, excepting thofe of Sweden,
. which are exempted.
BELTURBET, a town .of Ireland, in the county of
Cavan in the province of Ulfter, fituated upon the ri¬
ver Earn, about eight miles north of Cavan ; in 7° 35'
W. long, and 54c 7' N. lat.
BELTZ, the capita! of a palatinate of the fame name, in
the province of RedRuffia, in Poland; in 240 E. long,
and 50° 57 N. lat.
BELVIDERE, in the Italian architedture, ire. denotes
either a pavilion on the top of a building, .or an artifi¬
cial eminence in a garden; the word literally fignify-
ing a fine pr'fpett.
Belvidere, in geography, the capital of a province of
the fame name, on the w.eftern coaft of the Morea, in
220 E. long, and 370 N. lat.
BEMA, in ecclefiaftical antiquity, denoted the moft fa-
cred part of a church, or that where the altar ftood.
It was alfo ufed for the bihop’s throne, as well as for
the ambo. See Ambo.
BEMBER, a chain of mountains, dividing India from
Tartary.
BEMSTER, a market-town of Dorfetfliire, about
twelves miles north-weft of Dorchefter, fituated in
2° 50' W. long, and yo° 45' N. iat.
BEN. SeeBEHEN.
Ben Judea, a name fometimes ufed for benzoin. See
Benzoin.
BENAVARRE, or Benhuarri, a town of Aragon in
Spain, fituated in ic/ E. long, and 420 tj N. lat.
BENBECULA, one of the weftern dies of Scotland.
BENGALIS, oi Bancalis. SeefiANCALis.
BENCH, or Banc, in law. See Banc.
Free Bench fignifies that eftate in copyhold-lands, which
the wife, being efpoufed a virgin, has, after the de-
ceafe of her hufband, for her dower, according to the
cuftom of the manor. As to this free-bench, feveral
manors have feveral cuftoms; and in the manors of
Eaft and Weft Enbourne, in the county of Berks, and
other parts of England, there is a cuftom, that when
a copyhold tenant dies, the widow {hall have her free-
bench in all the deceafed hufband’s lands, whilft fire
lives fingle and ehafte; but if flie commits inconti-
nency, fhe firall forfeit her eftate : Neverthelefs, upon
her coming into the court of the manor, riding on a
black ram, and having his tail in her hand, and at the
fame time repeating a form of words preferibed, the
ftewafd is obliged, by the cuftom of the manor, to re¬
admit her to her free-bench.
Widow’s Bfnch. See Widow.
Amiable-FttKCw. See Amiable.
BENCHERS, in the inns of court, the fenior members
of the fociety, who are invefted with the government
thereof.
BENCOOLEN, a town and fort on- the fouth-weft
coaft of Sumatra, belonging to the E. India company,
from whence great quantities of pepper are imported.
It is fituated.in i010 E. long, and 40 S. lat.
BEND, in heraldry, one of the nine honourable ordi¬
naries, containing a third part of the field when char¬
ged, and a fifth when plain. It is-fometimes, like other
ordinaries, indented, ingrafted, ^rc. and is either dex¬
ter or linifter.
Bend dexter is formed by two lines drawn from the up¬
per part of the fliield on the right, to the lower part
of the left, diagonally. It is fuppofed to reprefent a
(houlder-belt, or a fcarf, when worn over the Ihoulder.
See Plate LI. fig. 11.
Bend fmijier is that which comes from the left fide of the
ftiield to the right: This the French heralds call a bar re.
In Bend, is when any things, borne in arms, are placed
obliquely from the upper corner to-the oppofite lower,
as the bend lies.
Par/E/ffr Bend, Point in Bend, See Parti
and Point.
BENDER, a town of Beffarabia, in European Turky,
fituated on the river Neifter, in 290 E. long, and 46°
40' N. lat.
BEN- -
BEN (' 540
BENDERICK, a fea-port town, fituated on the Perfian
gulf.
BENDIDIA, a feftival, not unlike the Bacchanalia, ce¬
lebrated by the Athenians in honour of Diana.
BENDING, in a general fenfe, the reducing a ftraight
body into a curve, or giving it a crooked form.
The bending of timber-boards, <bc. is effected by
means of heat, whereby their fibres are fo relaxed
that you may bend them into any figure.
Bending, in the fea-language, the tying two ropes or
cables together: Thus they fay, bend the cable, that
is, make it faft to the ring of the anchor; bend the-
fail, make it fall to the yard.
BEN DITTO, a town of the Mantuan in Italy, fituated
near the fouth fiiore of the river Po, about twelve
miles fouth-eall of Mantua, in 11° 20' E. long, and
450 N. last.
BENDLET, in heraldry, the fame with cottice. See
CoTTICE.
BENDS, in a Ihip, the fame with what is called wails,
or wales; the outmoll timbers of a Ihip’s fide, on
which men fet their feet in climbing up. They are
reckoned from the water, and are called the firll, fe-
cond, or third bend. They are the chief ftrength of
a Ihip’s fides, and have the beams, knees, and fo6t-
hooks bolted to them.
BENDY, in heraldry, is the field divided into four, fix,
or more parts, diagonally, and varying in metal and
colour.
The general cuflom of England is to make an even
number, but in other countries they regard it not, whe¬
ther even or odd. See Plate LI. fig. 12.
Counter Bendy is ufed by the French, to exprefs what
we ordinarily call bendy of fix per bend finilter, coun-
terchanged.
Barry Bendy. See Barry.
Bendy. SccPaly.
BENE, orDE bene esse. See De bene esse.
BENCAPED, among failors. A fhip is faid to be ben-
caped when the water- does not flow high enough to
bring her off the ground, out of the dock, or over
the bar.
BENEDICITE, among ecclefiaftical writers, an appella¬
tion given to the fong of the three children in the fiery
furnace, on account of its beginning with the word
benedicife.
BENEDICTINS, in church-hiftory, an order of monks,
who profefs to follow the rules of St. Benedict.
The benedi&ins, being thofe only that are proper¬
ly called monks, wear a loofe black gown, with large
wide fleeves, and a capuche, or cowl, on their heads,
ending in a point behind. In the canon law, they are
ftyled black friers, from the colour of their habit.
The rules of St. Benedift, as obferved by the Eng-
lifli monks before the diffolution of the monafteries,
tkere as follows : They were obliged to perform their
devotions feven times in twenty four hours, the whole
circle of which devotions had a refped to the paflion
and death of Chrift : They were obliged always to go
two and two together: Every day in lent they were
obliged to faft till fix in the evening, and abated of
) BEN
their ufual time of fleeping and eating; but they were
not allowed to pra&ife any voluntary aufterity without
leave of their fuperior : They never converfed in their
refeftory at meals, but were obliged to attend to the
reading of the fcriptures: They all llept in the fame
dormitory, but not two in a bed; they lay in their
cloaths : For fmall faults they were Ihut out from
meals; for greater, they were debarred religious com¬
merce, and excluded from the chapel; and as to in¬
corrigible oflFenders, they were excluded from the mo¬
nafteries. Every monk had two coats, two cowls, a
table-book, a knife, a needle, and a handkerchief;
and the furniture of their bed was a mat, a blanket, a
rug, and a pillow.
BENEDICTION, or Blessing. The Hebrews, un¬
der this name, underftand the prefent ufually fent from
one friend to another, as alfo the blefling conferred by
the patriarchs, on their death-beds, upon their children.
The privilege of benediction was one of thofe early
inftances of honour and refpeCt paid to bilhops in the
primitive church. The cuftom of bowing the head to
them, and receiving their bleflings, was become univer-
fal. In the weftern churches there was anciently a kind
of benediction which followed the Lord’s prayer ;
and after the communion, the people were difmifled
with a benediction.
BENEDICTUS, among phyficians, an epithet given to
feveral medicines, on account of their lenitive quali¬
ties ; thus we meet with aqua benedicla, benedittum
laxativurn, vinum benedittum. See.
BENEDITTO Sacco. See Sacco.
BENEFICE, in an ecclefiaftical fenfe, a church endowed
with a revenue for the performance of divine fervice ;
or the revenue itfelf affigned to an ecclefiaftical per-
fon, by way of ftipend, for the fervice he is to do
that church.
All church-preferments, except bifhoprics, are called
benefices; and all benefices are, by the canonifts,
fometimes ftyled dignities: But we now ordinarily di-
ftinguifti between benefice and dignity, applying dignity
to bilhoprics, deanries, archdeaconries, and preben¬
daries ; and benefice to parfonages, vicarages, and
donatives.
Benefices are divided by the canonifts into Ample
and facerdotal: In the firft there is no obligation but
to read prayers, fing, ire. fuch are canonries, cha-
plainlhips, chantries, ire.: The fecondare charged with
the cure of fouls, or the direction and guidance of
confciences; fuch are vicarages, reftories, ire.
The Romanifts again diftinguilh benefices into re¬
gular and fecular.
Regular or titular benefices are thofe held by a reli¬
gious, or a regular, who has made profeflion of fome
religious order ; fuch are abbeys, priories, conven¬
tuals, &c.; or rather, a regular benefice is that which
cannot be conferred on any but a religious, either by
its foundation, by the inftitution of fome fuperior, or
by prefeription : For prefeription, forty years poflef-
fion by a religious makes the benefice regular.
Secular benefices are only fuch as are to be given to
fecular priefts, /. e. to fuch as live in the world, and
are
BEN (5
are not engaged in any monadic order. All benefices
are reputed fecular, till the cor:rary is made to ap¬
pear. They are called fecular benefices, becaufe held
by feculars; of which kind are almoll all cures.
BENEFIT of Clergy. See Clergy.
BENESCHAW, the name of two towns ; the one in the
kingdom of Bohemia, and the other in Silefia.
BENEVENTE, a town of Leon, in Spain, fituated on
the river Efta, about 40 miles fouth of the city of Leon,
in 6° W. long, and 420 io' N. lat.
BENEVENTO, the capital of the Farther Principate,
in the kingdom of Naples, about 34 miles north-eaft
of the city of Naples ; fituated in 150 id E. long, and
41 0 1 y' N. lat.
BENEVOLENCE, in morals, fignifies the love of man¬
kind in general, accompanied with a defire to promote
their happinefs. See Morals.
Benevolentia regis habenda the ancient form of
purchafing the king’s pardon and favour, on fubmiflion,
in order to be reftored to place, title, or eftate.
BENFIELD, a town of Alface, in Germany, about 15
miles fouth of Stralburg; fituated in 70 30' E. long,
and 48° 25' N. lat.
BENGA, one of the Molucca iflands. See Molucca.
BENGAL, the mod eaderly province of the Mogul’s
empire, lying at the bottom of a large bay, which
takes its name from this province.
It is one of the mod fertile provinces in India, be¬
ing yearly overflowed by the Ganges, as Egypt is by
the Nile.
BENGUELA, a kingdom upon the weflern coafl of
Africa between Angola and Jaga. It is alfo the name
of the capital of that kingdom.
BENJAMIN, the fame with benzoin. SccBenzoin.
BENJAR, the mod confiderable river of the ifland Bor¬
neo, which, arifingnear the middle of that ifland, runs
fouthwards, and falls into the great South Sea.
BENIN, the capital of a country of the fame name, on
the coafl of Guinea; fituated in 50 E. long. and70
3D/ N. lat.
BENSHEIM, a town of Germany, fituated on the eafl-
fideof the river Rhine, about 10 miles ead of Worms,
in 8° 30' E. long, and 490 40' N. lat.
BENTHEIM, the capital of a county of the fame name,
in the circle of Weflphalia; fituated in 70 ij'E. long,
and 520 21 N. lat.
BENTIVOGLIO, a town in the territory of Bologna,
in Italy, about 10 miles north of that city, fituated in
120 E. long, and 440 30'N. lat.
BENZOIN, in materia medica, a concrete refinous juice,
obtained from a large tree growing naturally in both
the Indies. The refin is brought from the Ead Indies in
large mafles, compofed of white and light-brown pieces,
with yellowifli fpecks : It eafily breaks betwixt the'
hands. That which is whited is mod edeemed. It
has very little tade ; but its fmell is very fragrant and
agreeable, efpecially when heated. The principal ufe
of benzoin is in perfumes, and as a cofmetic: and en¬
ters in fubflance only into one officinal compofition,
the balfamum tranmaticum. But its flowers, which is
a white faline concrete obtained by committing it to
Vol. I. No. 23. 3
4t ) B E R
the fire in proper vefiels, are recommended jin difoi -
ders of the bread; and in this intention they are made
an ingredient in the paregoric elixir, pe<5toral elixir,
and pills, and in the troches of fulphur.
BERAMS, a coarfe cloth, all made with cotton-thread,
which comes from the Ead Indies, and particularly
from Surat.
BERAR, an inland province of India, on this fide the
Ganges, lying weflward of Orixa.
BERAUN, a town of Bohemia, fituated in 140 E. long,
and 50° 2 N. lat.
BERAY, a town of Normandy, in France, fituated in
1° 2Q/W. long, and 490 d N. lat.
BERBERII, the Palsy, in medicine. See Palsy.
BERBERIS, in botany, a genus of the hexandria mo-
nogynia clafs. The calixconfids of fix leaves or pieces ;
the petals are fix, with two glands at the ungues ; it
has no ffylus ; and the berry contains two feeds. There
are two fpecies, 'viz. the vulgaris, or barberry or pip-
peridg’e-buffi, a native of Britain ; ^nd the cretica, a
native of Candia. The inner bark, which is bitter,
is faid to be of ufe in the jaundice. The berries,
which are gratefully acid, have been given with fuc-
cefs in bilious fluxes, and difeafes proceeding from
heat, acrimony, or thinnefs of the juices.
BERCHEROIT, or Be r k o 1 ts, a weight ufed at Arch¬
angel, and in all the Ruffian dominions, to weigh fuch
merchandizes as are heavy and bulky : It weighs about
364 pounds Engliffi avoirdupois weight.
BERENGARIANS, a religious feft of the Xlth cen¬
tury, which adhered to the opinion of Berengarius,
who, even in thofe days, flrenuoufly aflerted, that the
bread and wine in the Lord’s fupper is not really and
eflentially, but only figuratively, changed into the
body and blood of Chrid.
BERENICE, a port town of Egypt, now called Suez.
Berenice’s hair, coma Berenices. SeeCoMA.
BERE-REGIS, a market-town in Dorfetfhire, about
10 miles north-ead of Dorchefler, in 20 20 W. long,
and jo° 40' N. lat.
BERESOWA, a town of Mufcovy, in Samogitia, fitu¬
ated upon the river Oby.
BERG, a dutchy of Wedphalia, in Germany, lying on
the eadern Ihore of the river Rhine, which feparates
it from Cologne.
Berg of St. Wimx. See Winoxberg.
BERGAMO, a town in the territories of Venice, in
Italy, about 25 miles north-ead of Milan, in io° E.
long, and 450 4c/ N. lat.
BERGAMOT, the name of a fragrant eflence extradled
from a Fruit which is produced by ingrafting a branch
of a lemon-tree upon the dock of a bergamot-pear. It
is alfo the denomination of a coarfe tapedry, manu-
fadtured with flocks of filk, wool, cotton, hemp, ox,
cow, or goats hair, and fuppofed to be invented by the
people of Bergamo.
BERGAS, a towi'of European Turky, in Romania, in
- 28° E long, and 410 N. lat.
BERGEN, the capital of a province of the fame name,
in Norway : It is a confiderable port-town on the Ger¬
man ocean, in 6° E. long, and 600 N. lat.
f . 6 X
Bergen,
B E R ( 542 ) B E R
Bergen is alfo the name of the capital of the ifle of Ru-
gen, on the coaft of Pomerania, in I49E. long, and
540 15' N. lat.
Bergen-op-zoom, a fortified town of Dutch Brabant,
about 20 miles north of Antwerp, in 40 5' E. long,
and 5 ! 9 30' N. lat.
BERGERACK, a city of Guienne in France, fitu-
uated on the river Dordonne, about 40 miles eait of
Bourdeaux, in 20°E. long, and 440 ^ N. lat.
BERG-GRUEN, a kind of green ochre, ufed in pajnt-
BERGHMOT, an aflembly, or court, held upon a hill
in Derbylhire, for deciding controverfies among the
miners.
BERGZABERN, a town of Lower Alface, about five
miles fouth of Landau, in 8° E. long, and 490 s' N.
lat. It is fubjedt to France.
BERKSHIRE, a county in England, lying on the fouth
fide of the river Thames, oppofite to Oxfordlhire and
Buckinghamfliire. It gives the title of earl to a branch
of the iloward family.
BERLIN, the capital of the king of Pruffia’s dominions
in Germany, fituated on the river Spree, in the mar-
quifate of Brandenburg; in 14° E. long and 52° 3c/
N. lat.
Berlin is alfo the name of a kind of chariot, fo called
from the city of Berlin.
BERME, in fortification, a fpace of ground left at the
foot of the rampart, on the fide next the country, de-
figned to receive the ruins of the rampart, and prevent
their filling up the foffe. It is fometimes palifadoed,
for the more fecurity; and in Holland it is generally
planted with a quick-fet hedge. It is alfo called li-
ziere, relais, foreland, retraite, pais de fouris, &c.
BERMUDA-ISLANDS, a duller of very fmall illands,
in the Atlantic ocean, lying almoft in the fhape of a
Ihepherd’s hook, in 65 0 W. long, and 320 30' N. lat.
BERMUDIAN A, in botany, a fynonime of the ixia.
SeeIxia.
BERN, a townof Bohemia, about 15 miles weft of Prague,
in 14° E. long, and 50° N. lat.
Bern is alfo the name of a city and canton in Switzer¬
land ; the former being fituated in 70 20 E. long, and
47° N. lat.
The Canton of Bern is by far the moft extenfive
and powerful of all Switzerland: Their government is
ariftocratical, and their religion proteftant, according
to the Prelbyterian form.
BERNARDIA, in botany, a fynonime of the adelia.
See Adelia,
BERNARDINES, an order of monks, founded by Ro¬
bert abbot of Moleme, and reformed by St. Bernard.
They wear a white robe, with a black fcapulary; and
when they officiate they are cloathed with a large gown
which is all white, and hath great fleeves, with a
hood of the fame colour.
BERNAW, the name of three towns in Germany, one
in the eledorate of Brandenburg, another in the bi-
Ihoprie of Ratilbon, and the third in the Upper Pa-
lat’rate.
BERN URG, a town of Anhalt, in the circle of Upper
Saxony, lituatedin 120 20' E.iong. and 510 5c/N.lat.
BERNERA, one of the weftern ifles of Scotland, lying
in lat. 56° 48'.
BERNICOLA, in ornithology, the trivial name of a
fpeciesof anas. See Anas.
BERNICLE, in zoology. Se Lepas.
BERRY. SccBacca.
Berry, in geography, a territory of the Orleanois, ha¬
ving Tourain on the weft, and the Nivernois on the
call.
Berry-point, a cape at the entrance of Torbay in
Devonihire
BERSELLO, orBRESELLo, a town of the Modenefe,
in Italy, fituated on the river Po, about 14 miles north-
eaft of Parma ; in 11° E. long, and 440 4c/ N. lat.
BERTH, or Birth, among failors. See Birth.
BERTRAND, or St. Bertrand, a city of Gafcony,
in France, fituated on the river Garonne, about 45
miles fouth of Toloufe, in 30'E. long, and 430 13'
N. lat.
BERVY, a fea-port town and borough; of Scotland, fi¬
tuated on the German ocean, about 22 miles fouth-
weft of Aberdeen, in 20 5' W. long, and 56° 50' N. lat.
BERWICK, a borough-town on the borders of England
and Scotland, fituated on the north fide of the river
Tweed, in i° 4c/ W. long, and 530 3c/ N. lat. It
fends two members to parliament.
iVcrM-BERwiCK, a town of Scotland, fituated at the
entrance of the frith of Forth, about 17 miles eaft of
Edinburgh, in 2° 27'W. long, and 36° 5' N. lat.
BERYL, in natural hiftory, called by our lapidaries
aqua marina, is a pellucid gem of a bluifh green co¬
lour, found in the Eaft Indies and about the gold mines
of Peru : We have alfo fome from Silefia, but what
are brought from thence are oftener coloured cryftals
than real beryls; and when they are genuine, they are
greatly inferior botli in hardnefs and luftre to the ori¬
ental and Peruvian kinds.
The beryl, like moft other gems, is met with both
in the pebble and columnar form, but in the latter
moft frequently. In the pebble form it ufually ap¬
pears of a roundifh but flatted figure, and commonly
full of fmall flat faces, irregularly difpofed. In the
columnar or cryftalline form it always confifts of hex-
angular columns, terminated byhexangular pyramids.
It never receives any admixture of colour into it, nor
lofes the blue and green, but has its genuine tinge in
the degrees from a very deep and dufliy to the paleft.
imaginable of the hue of fea-water.
The beryl, in its perfect ftate, approaches to the
hardnefs of the granet, but it is often fofter ; and its
fize is from that of a fmall tare to that of a pea, a
a horfe-bean, or even a walnut. It may be counter¬
feited by reducing burnt copper to an impalpable pow¬
der, and melting it with cryftalline glafs or calcined
cryftal, in the proportion of one dram to a pound of
glafs.
BERYL-crj[/?tf/, in natural hiftory, a fpeces of what Dr
Hill calls ellipomacrojlyla, or imperfedt cryftals, is of
an extreme pure, clear, and equal texture, andfcarce-
ever fubjedl to the flighted films or blemiflies. It is
ever conftant to the peculiarity of its figure, which is
that of a long and Header column, remarkably taper-
BET ( 543
ing towards the top, and very irregularly he^ angular.
It is of a very fine tranfparence, and naturally of a
pale brown; and carries fo evident marks of diftindtion
from all brown cryftals, that our lapidaries call it, by
way of eminence, the beryl cryjial, or fimply the beryl.
BES, orBESsis, in Roman antiquity, two thirds of
the as. See As.
Bes allb denotes two thirds of the jugerum. See Ju-
GERUM.
BESAILE, fignifies the father of a grand-father.
Besaile, in law, a writ that lies where the great-grand¬
father was feifed in fee of any lands, at the time
of his death ; and after his deceafe, a ftranger enters
thereon, the fame day, and keeps out the heir.
BESANCON, the capital of Franche Comte in France,
fituated in 6° E. long, and 470 20 N. lat.
BES ANT, or Bezant, a coin of pure gold, of an un¬
certain value, (truck at Byzantium, in the time of the
Chriftian emperors ; from hence the gold offered by
the king at the altar, is called befant or bifznt,
Besants, in heraldry, round pieces of gold, without
any (tamp, f.equtndy borne in coats of arms. See
Plate 1*1. (ig. 14.
BESIERS, a city of lower Languedoc in France, about
two miles north of the Mediterranean, and fifteen
north-ead of Narbonne, in 30 E. long, and 430 25'
N. lat.
BESLERIA, in botany, a genus of the didynamia an-
giofpermia clafs. The calix is divided into five parts ;
and the berry globular, and contains many feeds. The
fpecies are three, viz. the melittifolia, the lutea, and
the criftata, all natives of America.
BESORCH, a coin of tin, or fome alloyed metal, cur¬
rent at Ormus, at the the rate of -3— parts of a farthing
fterling.
BESSARABIA, a province of Turky in Europe, lying
about the feveral mouths of the Danube.
BESSIS. See Bes
BESSY, one of the Molucca iflands, fituated in the In¬
dian ocean, in i° 50' S. lat.
BESTAIL, or Bestial, in ancient (latutes, all kinds
of beads, or cattle, efpeciaily thofe purveyed for the
king’s provifion.
BESTIARII, in Roman antiquity, fuch as fought againfl:
beads, or thofe who were expofed to them by fentence
of the law. There were four kinds of bediarii ; the
fird were thofe who made a trade of it, and fought for
money; the fecond were fuch young men as, to (hew
their drength and dexterity in managing their arms,,
fought againd beads; the third kind was, where feve¬
ral bediarii were let loofe at once, well armed, againft
a number of beads; and the fourth kind were thofe
condemned to the beads, confiding either of enemies
taken prifoners in war, or as being (laves, and guilty
of forae enormous crime; thofe were all expofed na¬
ked, and without defence.
BESTRICIA, a city of Tranfylvania, remarkable for
the gold mines near it; it is fituated in 220 E. long,
and 48° N lat.
BETA, the beet, in botany, a genus of the pentandria
digynia clafs. The calix has four leaves; it has no
) BET
corolla ; the feeds are (haped like kidneys, and are fitu"
ated within the bafe of the calix. There are two jpe*
cies, thz. the maritima or fea-beet, a native of Bri¬
tain ; and the vulgaris or green beet, of Bauhinus,
which is chiefly cultivated for culinary uie. Decoc¬
tions of the vulgaris loofen the belly ; and hence have
been ranked among the emollient herbs. The juice
exprelfed from the roots is a powerful errhine.
BETANCOS, a city of Gallicia in Spain, in 8° yc/
W. long, and 430 N. lat.
BETAW. SeeBETUE.
BETEL, oeBetle, in botany, the trivial name of a
fpecies of piper. See Piper.
BETELFAGUI, a town of Arabia Felix, about thir¬
ty-five leagues from Mocha.
BETHLEHEM, once a flourifliing city of Paledine,
but now only a poor village, is dill much frequented,
as being the place of our Saviour’s birth ; it is fitu¬
ated in 36°,E. long, and 310 30' N. lat.
Bethlehem is alfo the name of a town of Brabant, in
the Audrian Netherlands, about two miles north of
Louvain, fituated in 40 35/ E. long, and 510 N. lat.
BETHLEHEMITES, in church-hidory, a religious
order, called alfo Jiar-bearcrs, becaufe they were di-
flinguiflved by a red dar with five rays, which they
wore on their bread, in memory of the dar that ap¬
peared to the wife men, and conduced them to Beth¬
lehem.
BETHUNE, a little fortified town of Artois, in the
French Netherlands, about thirteen miles north of
Arras, fituated in 2° 3s' E- long, and 50° 32'
N. lat.
EETLIS, a city in the north of Curdidan, fituated on-
a deep rock, at the fouth end of the lake-Van, on the
frontiers of Perfia and Turky, in 450 E. long, and
and 370 30' N. lat.
BETONY, in botany, the Englifli name of the betoni-
ca, and of feveral fpecies of veronica. See Betonica
and Veronica.
BETROTHMENT, among civilians, the fame with
efpoufals.
BETUE, or Betaw, a terriory in Dutch Guelderlarid,
between the rivers Maefe and Lech, fuppofed to be
the ancient Batavia.
BETULA, or Birch-Zw, in botany, a genus of the
moncecia tetrandria clafs. The calix of the male flower
has but one trifid leaf, and inclofes three flowers; the co¬
rolla confids likewife of one leaf cut into four fegments.
The calix of the female is trifid, and inclcfes two
flowers ; and the feed is membranous, and alated on.
each fide. The fpecies are five, viz. the alba or
birch-tree, a native of Britain ; the nigra, and lenta,
both natives of America; the nana, a native of Lap-
land, Ruflia, and Sweden; and the alnus, likewife a
native of Lapland. The bark of the alba, or common
birch-tree, is a highly inflammable (ubdance; but its
medical virtues are little known. Upon boring the
trunk in the the beginning of fpring, a fweetiih juice
ilfues forth in great quantities ; one branch will bleed
an Englidt gallon or more in a day. This juice is
chiefly recommended in fcorbutic diforders, and other
foul-
B E Z ( 544
foulneffes of the blood: Its mod: fenfible effett is to
promote the urinary difcharge.
BEVECUM, a town of Brabant in the Auftrian Ne¬
therlands, about feven miles fouth of Louvain, fituated
in 40 45' E. long, and 50° 45/ N. lat.
BEVEL, among mafons, carpenters, <bc. a kind of
fquare, one leg whereof is frequently crooked,-ac¬
cording to the fweep of an arch or vault. It is
moveable on a centre, and fo may be fet to any
angle.
Be ve \j-cinjjlc) any other angle befides thofe of ninety or
forty-five degrees. See Angle.
BEVELAND, the name of two illands, in the pro¬
vince of Zealand, in the United Netherlands.
The are called North and South Beveland; and lie
between the eaftern and weftern branches of the
Scheld.
BEVERLY, a borough-town of Yorkfliire, about feven
miles north of Hull, in 12' W. long, and 53° 50'
N. lat. It fends two members to parliament.
BEVILE, in heraldry, a thing broken or opening like a
carpenter’s rule: Thus we fay, he beareth argent, a
chief bevile, vert, by the name of berverlis. See
Plate LI. fig. 13.
BEUTHEN, the name of two towns in Silefia, one of
which is famous for a filver mine.
BEWDLEY, a borough-town of Worcefterlhire, fitu¬
ated on the river Severn, about twelve miles north of
W'rcefter, in 20 2Q/ W. long, and 520 25' N. lat.
It fends only one member to parliament.
BEWITS, in falconry, pieces of leather, to which a
hawk’s bells are faftened, and buttoned to his legs.
BEXOQUILLO, a name fometimes given to the white
ipecacuanha.
BEY, among the Turks, fignifies a governor of a coun¬
try or town. The Turks write it begh, or bek, but
pronounce it bey.
This word is particularly applied to a lord of a ban¬
ner, whom, in the fame language, they call fangiae-
leg or bey. Every province in Turky is divided into
feven fangiacs, or banners, each of which qualifies a
bey ; and thefe are all commanded by the governor of
the province, whom they alfo call begler-beg, that is,
lord of all the beghs or beys of the province: Thefe
beys are much the fame as bannerets were formerly in
England.
Bey of Tunis, the fame with the dey of Algiers, is the
prince or king of that kingdom.
BEYLAN, a town of Syria, upon the road from Aleppo
to Conftantinople.
BEZANS, cotton cloths, which come from Bengal ;
fome are white, and others ftripped with feveral co¬
lours.
BEZANTLER, the branch of a deer’s horns next be¬
low the brow-antler.
BEZOAR, in natural hiftory, is a Itony concretion
found in the ftomach of feveral animals of the goat
kin 1 It is compofed of concentrical coats furround-
jng fuch,other, with afmall cavity in the middle, con-
a bit of wood, draw, hair, or the like fub-
) BIB
There are two kinds of bezoar. The firft, which is
brought from Perfia and the Eaft Indies, is found in
the ftomach of the capra bezoardica, and efteemed by
phyficians to be the belt. It is, called oriental bezoar,
and is of a finning dark-green or olive-colour, and has
an even fmooth furface. On removing the outer coat,
that which lies underneath is likewife fmooth and fin¬
ning. It is generally lefs than a walnut.
The fecond kind, called occidental bezoar, is
brought from the Spanilh Weft Indies, has a rough
furface, and lefs of a green colour than the oriental.
It is likewife much heavier, more brittle, and of a
loofer texture; the coats are thicker, and, on break¬
ing, exhibits a number of ftriae curioufly interwoven.
The occidental is generally larger than a walnut, and
fometimes as big as a goofe-egg.
The great value of this ftone in Perfia and the Eaft,
and the little ufe it is found to be of in Europe, has
made many fufpedt that the true kind is never brought
to us. Many of them are indeed evidently made by
art. The ufual mark to diftinguifli its being of a good
quality, is its ftriking a deep green colour on white
paper that has been rubbed with chalk. But it is of
little importance to fay much on this fubjedt. The
ftone is nothing more than a morbid concretion, much
of the fame nature with the human calculus, of no
fmell or tafte, indigeftible in the ftomach of the animal
in which it is found, and fcarce capable of being afted
upon by any of the juices of the human body ; and,
notwithftanding its many boafted virtues, it cannot be
confidered in any other light than as an abforbent of
the weakeft kind.. However, bezoar, on account of
its high price, if it ferves no other purpofe, is of an
excellent ufe in the apothecaries bill.
BEZOARDIC, an appellation given to whatever par¬
takes of the nature of bezoar; alfo to compound me¬
dicines whereof bezoar makes an ingredient.
BIA, in commerce, a name given by the Siamefe to
thofe fmall ftiells which are called cowries throughout
almoft all the other parts of the Eaft: Indies. See
Cowries.
BIAFAR, a kingdom of Africa in Negritia, bounded
on the Weft by the kingdom of Benin, on the north
by that of Medra, and on the eaft and fduth by the
kingdom of Mujac.
BIALOGOROD, a town of Beflarabia, upon the Nie-
fter. It is likewife called Akerman; E. long. 320
ac/, N. lat. 46° 24r.
BIALGRODKO, the capital of the Ukraine, fituated
upon the river Pnetz.
BIARU, a cape on the north-eaft part of the ifland of
Macaflar, in th Indian Ocean.
BIAS, or Biass, in a general fenfe, the inclination or
bent of a perfon’s mind to one thing more than an¬
other. It alfo fignifies the lead or weight put into a
bowl, that draws or turns the courfe of it'any way to
which the bias looks.
RI ATHANATI, the fame with filicides, or felos de fe.
BIBERSBERG, a town of Upper Hungary, fifteen
miles north of Prelburg; E. long. 170 3c/, and N.
lat. 48° 3j'.
BIBIO,
BIB ( 545 ) BIB
BIBIO, in zoology, the trivial name of a fpecies of ti-
pula. SeeTiPULA.
BIBITORY mufcle, the fame with the addu&or oculi.
See Adductor.
BIBLE, a name applied by Chriftians, by way of emi¬
nence or diftin&ion, to the collection of facred wri¬
tings, or the holy fcriptures of the Old and New Te-
ftament; known alfo by various other appellations, as,
the Sacred Books, Holy Writ, Infpired Writings,
Scriptures, <bc. The Jews ftiled the Bible (that is,
the Old Xeftament) mikra, which fignifies Lejfan, or
Letture.
This collection of the facred writings, containing
thofe of the Old and NewTeftament, is jultly looked
npon as the foundation of the Jewiih as well as the
Chriftian religion. The Jews, it is true, acknow¬
ledge only the fcriptures of the Old Teftament, the
correcting and publifliing of which is unanimoutly a-
fcribed, both by the Jews and Chriftians, to Ezra.
Some of the ancient fathers, on no other founda¬
tion than that fabulous and apocryphal book, the fe-
cond book of Efdras, pretend, that the fcriptures
were entirely loft and deftroyed at the Babylonifti
captivity, and that Ezra reftored them all again
by divine revelation. What is certain is, that in
the reign of Jofiah there was no other book of
the law exta'nt befides that found in the temple by
Hilkiah ; from which original, by order of that pious
king, copies were immediately written out, and fearch
made for all the other parts of the fcriptures, (2 Kings
xxii.); by which means copies of the whole became
multiplied among the people, who carried them with
them into their captivity. After the return of the
Jews from the Babylonifti captivity, Ezra got toge¬
ther as many copies as he could of the Sacred wri¬
tings, and out of them all prepared a correCt edition,
difpofing the feveral books in their proper order, and
fettling the canon of fcripture for his time. Thefe
books he divided into three parts. 1. The Law.
2. The Prophets. 3. The Cetubim, or Hagiogra-
phia, i. e. The holy’writings.
I. The Law contains, 1. Genefis. 2. Exodus.
3. Leviticus. 4. Numbers. 5. Deuteronomy.
II The writings of the Prophets are, x. Jofhua.
2. Judges, with Ruth. 3. Samuel. 4. Kings. 5. I-
faiah. 6. Jeremiah, with his Lamentations. 7. E-
zekiel. 8. Daniel. 9. The twelve minor Pro¬
phets. xo. Job. 11. Ezra. 12. Nehemiah. 13.
Efther.
III. And the Hagiographia confifts of, 1. The
Pfalms. 2. The Proverbs. 3. Ecclefiaftes. 4. The
Song of Solomon. This divifion was made for the
fake of reducing the number of the facred books to
the number of the letters in their alphabet, which
amount to tu'enty-two At prefent, the Jews reckon
twenty-four books in their canon of fcripture, in dif¬
pofing of which the law (lands as it did in the former
divifion, and the prophets are diftributed into the for¬
mer and latter prophets.
The former prophets are,
Joftma, Judges, Samuel, Kings.
You. I. Numb. 23.
The latter prophets are,
Ifaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and the twelve minor prophets.
And the hagiographia coniiit of,
The Pfalms, the Proverbs, Job, the Song of Solomon,
Ruth, the Lamentations, Ecclefiaftes, Efther, Daniel,
Ezra, the Chronicles.
Under the name of Ezra, they comprehend Nehe¬
miah. It is true this order hath not always been obfer-
ved, but the variations from it are of little or no moment.
The five books of the law are divided into fifty-four
fedlions. This divifion many of the Jews hold to have
been appointed by Mofes himfelf; but others, with more
probability, aicrijpe it to Ezra. The defign of this di¬
vifion was, that one of thefe fe&ions might be read in
their fynagogues every fabbath-day. The number was
54, becaufe in their intercalated years, a month being
then added, there were 54 fabbaths. In other years,
they reduced them to 52, by twice joining together two
(hort fetftions. Till the perfecution of Antiochus Epi-
phanes, they read only the law; but the reading of it be¬
ing then prohibited, they fubftituted in the room of it
54 fe&ions out of the Prophets; and when the reading
of the law was reftored by the Maccabees, the feftion
which was read every fabbath out of the law, ferved for
their firft leflbn, and the fedlion out of the prophets for
their fecond. Thefe fe&ions were divided into verfes, of
which divifion, if Ezra was not the author, it was intro¬
duced not long after him, and feems to have been defigned
for the ufe of the Targumifts, or Chaldee interpreters;
for after the return of the Jews from the Babylonifh cap¬
tivity, when the Hebrew language had ceafed to be their
mother tongue, and the Chaldee grew into ufe inftead
of it, the cuftom was, that the law (hould be firft read
in the original Hebrew, and then interpreted to the peo¬
ple in the Chaldee language, for which purpofe thefe
(horter feftions or periods were very convenient.
The divifion of the fcriptures into chapters, as we at
prefent have them, is of much later date. Some attri¬
bute it to Stephen Langton, archbifhop of Canterbury,
in the reigns of John and Henry III. But the true au¬
thor of the invention was Hugo de Sandto Caro, com¬
monly called Hugo Cardinalis, becaufe he was the firft
Dominican that ever was raifed to the degree of cardi¬
nal. This Hugo flouriftied about the year 1240. He
wrote a comment on the fcriptures, and proje&ed the
firft concordance, which is that of the vulgar Latin Bi¬
ble. The aim of this work being for the more eafy find¬
ing out any word or paflage in the fcriptures, he found it
neceffary to divide the book into fedtions, and the fec-
tions into fubdivifions ; for till that time the vulgar La¬
tin Bibles were without any divifion at all. Thefe fec-
tions are the chapters into which the Bible hath ever
fince been divided. But the fubdivifion of the chapters
was not then into verfes. as it is now. Hugo’s method of
fubdividing them was by the letters A, B, C, D, E, F, G,
placed in the margin at an equal diftance from each other,
according to the length of the chapters. The fubdivi¬
fion of the chap-ers into verfes, as they now (land in our
Bibles, had its original from a famous Jewifh rabbi, na¬
med Mordecai Nathan, about the year 1445;. This rab¬
bi, in imitation of Hugo Cardinalis, drew up a concord-
f 6 Y . ance
3
BIB ( 546 ) BIB
ance to the Hebrew Bible, for the ufe of the Jews. Bat
though he followed Hugo in his divifion of the books
into chapters, he refined upon his invention as to the fub-
divifion, and contrived that by verfes: this being found
to be a much more convenient method, it has been ever
lince followed. And thus, as the Jews borrowed the
divifion of the books of the holy fcriptures into chapteis
from the Chriftians, in like manner the Chriftians bor¬
rowed that of the chapters into verfes from the Jews.
The order and divifion of the books of the Bible, as
well of the Old as the NewTeftament, according to the
difpofition made by the council of Trent, by decree I.
fellion iv, are as follow; where we are to obferve, that
thofe books to which the afterifms are prefixed, are re¬
ceded by the Proteftants, as apocryphal. See Apocry¬
pha.
Genefis,
Exodus,
Leviticus,
Numbers,
Deuteronomy,
Jolhua,
Judges and Ruth,
1 Samuel, or 1 Kings,
2 Samuel, or 2 Kings,
1 Kings, otherwife called iii. Kings,
2 Kings, otherwife called iv. Kings.
1 Chronicles,
2 Chronicles,
1 Efdras, (as the LXX and Vulgate call it), or the
book of Ezra,
2 Efdras, or (as we have it) the book of Nehemiah.
* Tobit,
* Judith,
Either,
Job,
Pfalms,
Proveibs,
Ecclefialles,
Song of Solomon,
* The book of Wifdom,
* Ecclefialticus,
Ifaiah,
Jeremiah and * Baruch,
Ezekiel,
Daniel,
Hofea,
Joel,
Amos,
Obadiah,
Nahum, which we place immediately after Micah, be¬
fore Habakkuk.
Jonah, which we place immediately after Obadiah.
Micah,
Habakkuk,
Zephaniah,
Haggai,
Zechariah,
Malachi,
* 1 Maccabees,
* Maccabees >
St Paul to
The general
Epiltle of
The books of the New Teftament are,
C St Matthew,
The GoTptl of Luke,’
^St John,
The ads of the Apoflles.
' the Romans,
the Corinthians I.
the Corinthians II.
the Galatians,
the Ephefians,
the Philippians,
The Epiltle of < the Coloffians,
the TheiTalonians I.
the Thelfalonians II.
Timothy, I.
Timothy, II.
Titus,
Philemon,
. the Hebrews.
' St James,
St Peter, I. .
St Peter, II.
. St John, I.
St John, II.
St John, III.
. St Jude,
The Revelations of St John.
The apocryphal books of the Old Teltament, accord¬
ing to the Romanills, are, the book of Enoch, (fee Jude
14.) the third and fourth books of Efdras, the third
and fourth books of Maccabees, the prayer of Manalfeh,
the Teltament of the twelve Patriarchs, the Pfalter of
Solomon, and fome other pieces of this nature.
The apocryphal books of the New Teltament are the
epiltle of St Barnabas, the pretended epiltle of St Paul
to the Laodiceans, feveral fpuripus gofpels. Ads of the
Apoltles, and Revelations ; the book of Hermas, intitled
the Shepherd, Jefus Chrilt’s Letter to Abgarus, the
epiltles of St Paul to Seneca, and feveral other pieces of
the like nature, as may be feen in the. colledion of the
apocryphal writings of the New Teltament made by Fa¬
bric ius.
The books which are now lolt, and cited in the Old
Tellament, are thefe, the book of the Righteous, or of
Jalher, as our verfion of the Bible has it, (Jolh. x. 13.
and 2 Sam. i. 18.) ; the book of the wars of the Lord,
(Numb. xxi. 14.) ; the annals of the kings of Ifrael, foof-
ten cited in the books of the Kings and Chronicles. The
authors of thefe annals were the prophets, who lived in
the kingdoms of Judah and Ifrael. We have likewife
but a part of Solomon’s three thoufand proverbs, and his
thonfand and five fongs, (1 Kings iv. 32.); and we have
entirely loll what he wrote upon plants, animals, birds,,
filhes, and reptiles.
Ezra, in the opinion of moll learned men, publilhed
the fcriptures in the Chaldee charader: For that lan¬
guage being grown wholly into ufe among the Jews, he
thought proper to change the old Hebrew charader for
it, which hath fince that time been retained only by the
Samaritans, among whom it is preferved to this day.
PrideauxL
BIB (5
Prideaux is of opinion that Ezra made;additions in
feveral parts of the Bible, where any thing appeared ne-
ceflary for illuftrating, connecting, or compleating the
work; in which he appears to have been alfifted by the fame
ipirit in which they were firll written. Among fuch addi ■
tions are to be reckoned the }aft chapter of Deuteronomy,
wherein Mofes feems to give an account of his own death
and burial, and the fuccedion of Jolhua after him. To
the fame caufe our learned author thinks are to be attri¬
buted many other interpolations in the Bible, which cre¬
ated difficulties and objections to the authenticity of the
facred text, no ways to be folved without allowing them.
Ezra changed the names of feveral places which were
grown obfolete, and inftead of them put their new names,
by which they were then callfd, in th'e text. Thus it is
that Abraham is laid to have purfued the kings who car¬
ried Lot away captive, as far as Dan; whereas that
place in Mofes’s time was called Laiffi ; the name Dan,
being unknown till the Danites, long after the de^th of
Moles, polfelfed themfelves of it.
The Jewilh canon of fcripture was then fettled by
Ezra, yet not fo but that feveral variations have been
made in it. Malachi, for inlfance, could not be put in
the Bible by him, fince that prophet is allowed to have
lived after Ezra; nor could Nehemiah be there, fince
mention is made, in that book', of Jaddus, as high-priefi,
and of Darius Codomannus, as king of Perfia, who were
at leall an hundred years later than Ezra. It may be
added, that in the firll book of Chronicles, the genealogy
of the fons of Zerubbabel is carried down for fp many ge¬
nerations as mull neceflarily bring it to the time of Alex¬
ander, and confequently this book could not be in the ca¬
non in Ezra’s days. It is probable, the two books of
Chronicles, Ezra, Nehemiah, Either, and Maiachi, were
adopted into the Bible in the time of Simon the Juft, the
laft of the men of the great fynagogue.
As the Jews were very backward in having any inter-
courfe with ftrangers, it was a long rime before their facred
books came to be known and read in other nations. Jo-
fephus afcribcs the little that is faid of the Jews by pa^
gan writers to this, that the latter had no opportunity of
being acquainted with their hiftorians, for want of a
tranflation of their books into the Greek language. A-
rilteas indeed pretends, that there was an iniperfeCt ver-
fion of the fcriptures before the time of Demetrius Pha-
lereus; and that Theopompus intending to infert a part of
them in his verfes, was deprived of his undcrftanding ;
but of this there is no proof.
The Jews, upon their return from the Babylonifh cap¬
tivity, having brought with them their Chaldaic orAlfy-
rian language, which from that time became their mother-
tongue, gave birth to the Chaldee tranfiations, or rather
paraphrafes of the Bible, called Targum. See Targum.
Greek Bible. It is a matter of difpute among authors
whether there was a Greek verfion of'the OldTeftament
more ancient than the Septuagint. See Sevtuagint.
Before our Saviour’s time, there was no other Greek
verfion of the Old Teftament, befides that which went
under the name of the Septuagint: But after the efta-
bliffiment of Chriftianity, fome authors undertook new
tranftations, under pretence of nuking them more coa*
17 ) BIB
formable to the Hebrew text. The firft who performed
this defign was the Jewiffi profelyte Aquiia, of the city of
Synope inPontus, difciple to Rabbi Akiba, who put it in ex¬
ecution the twelfth year of the emperor Adrian, A. D. 128,
St Epiphanius pretends, that being excommunicated af¬
ter his converfion, for addidling himfelf to judicial aftro-
logy, he fet about this Verfion out of hatred to the Chri-
ftians, and with a wicked defign of corrupting the pafla-
ges of the prophets relating to Jefus Chrift. St Jerom
fays, his verfion is made word for word, and with too
fcrupulous a nicety.
The fecond Greek verfion after the Septuagint is that
of Symmachus, a Samaritan by birth, who firft turned
Jew, then Chriftian, and at laft Ebionite. He compo*
fed it, according to Epiphauius, in the reign of the em¬
peror Severus. His verfion was more free than the reft;
for he applied himfelf chiefly to the fenfe, without tranf-
lating word for word; wherefore his verfion comes near¬
er the Septuagint than that of Aquiia. The third Greek
verfion is that of Theodotion of Ephefus. It is faid he
was a difciple of Marcion, and that, having had fome
difference with thofe of his fedt, he turned Jew. The
verfion of this author was die heft of the three, becaufe
he kept a juft medium between Aquiia and Symmachus,
not confining himfeif fo fervilely to the letter as the firft
did, nor wandering fo far from it as the fecond did.
There were, befides thefe, three other Greek verfions,
whofe authors are unknown.
Syriac Bible. The Syrians have in their language
a verfion of the Old Teftament, which they pretend to
be of great antiquity. A great part of it, they fay, was
made in Solomon’s time, and the reft in the time of Ab-
garus king of Edeffa. They relate, that Hiram king of
Tyre delired Solomon to communicate the ufe of let¬
ters and writing to the Syrians, and to get tranflated for
them the facred books of the Hebrews ; which Solomon
complied with, and fent them the Pentateuch, Jofliu.i,
Judges, Ruth, Samuel, Pfolms, Proverbs, Ecclefiaftcs,
Solomon’s Song, and Job,, which were the only books
then extant; the remaining books of fcripture, they ad
were tranflated into Syriac after the death of Chrift.. by
the care of Abgarus king of Edefta. But this account is
looked upon as fabulous. It is true, the Syriac verfion
which we have now muft be very ancient, finee it is often
cited by the fathers. Dr Prideuux is of opinion, it was
made within the firft century; that the author ox'it was
fome Chriftian of the Jewiffi nation ; and that it is the
beft tranflation of the Old Teftarcent. This verfion is
not always agreeable to the original ; but in fome places
is more conformable to the Samaritan Pentateuch, and
in fome to the verfion of the Septuagint. In the Pfalms,
the tranflator has taken tlie liberty to leave out the an¬
cient titles and inferiptions of each pfalm, ioftead of
which he gives an abfti adt of the contents of each pfalm.
Lathi Bible. It is part difpute, that the Latin
churches had, even in the firft ages* a tranfla.ion.of the
Bible in their language, which, being the vulgar lan¬
guage,. and confequently underftood by every one, occa-
fioned a vaft number of Latin verfions. Among all thefe,:
there was one which was generally received, and called
by St Jerom the vulgar, or common tr.mllation. St Au-J
flitti
BIB ( 548 ) BIB
ftin gives this verfion the name of the Italic, and prefers
it to all the reft: But we referve a diftind article for
this verfion. See Vulgate.
St Jerom undertook to revife and corred the Latin
verfion of the Bible ; but, having afterwards attained to
a more perfed knowledge of the Hebrew language, he fet
about a new tranflation of fome books of the Old Tefla-
ment from the Hebrew; and continuing, at the folicita-
tion of his friends, to tranflate the reft, he at laft per-
feded an entire new verfion of all the books contained in
the Hebrew canon. In his tranflation, he followed, as
nearly as he could, the verfion of the Septuagint, and
retained the very expreffions of the ancient vulgar Latin,
as far as was confiftent with purity of flyle and true Lati-
nity. This tranflation was fo highly applauded by the
Chriftian church, that fome authors have pretended it
was brought to perfedion by the infpiration of the Holy
Ghoft. But St Auguftine looked upon the author to be
fo well fkilled in the Hebrew language, as to be able to
undertake, and bring to perfedion fuch a work by the
ftrength of his own abilities. St Jerom’s verfion was
fodn received in many churches ; and in the fixth centu¬
ry it became as general, and in as great efleem, as the
ancient Vulgate.
It was not till the fixteenth century that any new La¬
tin tranflations were made of the Bible from the Hebrew
text. Sandes Pagninus, a Dominican monk, was the
firft who undertook a new verfion of the books of fcrip-
ture from the modern Hebrew text. His defign was
encouraged by pope Leo X.; and his verfion made its
firft appearance at Lyons in the year 1527. It adheres
too fcrupuloufly to the words of the text, which makes
it obfcure, and favour of barbarity in many places. He
is likewife often mifled as to the fenfe, having affeded
too much to follow the explications of the Jewifh Rab¬
bins. It is however a very ufeful work, and very pro¬
per to explain the literal fenfe of the Hebrew text. A-
rias Montanus, when he compiled the edition of the
Biblia Polyglotta, revifed this tranflation of Pagninus.
Cardinal Cajetan, though not verfed in the Hebrew,
undertook a tranflation of fome parts of the Bible by the
afliftahce of two perfons well Ikilled in that language, the
one a Jew, the other a Chriftian. After him Ifidore
Clarius, a monk of Mount Caflin, fet himfelf to reform
the vulgar verfion of the Bible after the Hebrew text; in
the doing of which he pretends to have correded above
eight thoufand palfages of the Bible. Befides thefe tranf¬
lations, made by catholic authors, there are fome likewife
performed by proteftant tranflators ; the firft of whom
was Sebaftian Munfter. His verfion is more intelligible,
and in much better Latin, than that of Pagninus. Hue-
tius beftows on him the charader of a tranflator well
verfed in the Hebrew, and whofe ftyle is very exad and
comformable to the original. The tranflation of Leo
Juda, a Zuinglian, printed at Zuricfy in 1543, and after¬
wards by Robert Stephens in 1545, is written in a more
elegant ftyle than that of Munfter; but he often departs
from the literal meaning of the Hebrew text for the fake
of an elegant Latin expreflion. However, in this he has
not taken fo great a liberty as Sebaftian Caftalio, who
undertook to give the world an elegant Latin verfion of
the Bible : But time are critics who cenfure him for de¬
parting from the noble fimplicity and natural grandeur of
the original, and deviating into an affeded effeminate
ftyle, overcharged with falfe rhetoric, and not always
true Latinity. The verfion of Junius and Tremellius,
has much more of the true natural fimplicity: The chief
Hebraifms are preferved in it, and the whole is ftridly
conformable to the Hebrew text. We muft not forget
the verfion of Theodore Beza, a proteftant divine of Ge¬
neva, in the fixteenth century. Sebaftian Caftalio found
fault with this verfion, and Beza wrote an apology for it
about the year 1564.
Arabic Bible. The Arabic verfions of the Bible
are of two forts; the one done by Chriftians, the other
by Jews. There is one of the Old Teftament, whofe
author is fuppofed to be Saadias Gaon, a Jew of Baby¬
lon, who wrote the fame about the year of Chrift 900.
Of this whole work the Pentateuch alone is printed.
The Jews have another Arabic verfion in Hebrew charac¬
ters, which Erpenius publifhed in Arabic charaders at
Leyden in the year 1622. Among the Arabic tranfla¬
tions done by Chriftians, there is one printed in the po¬
lyglots of Paris and London; but both the author, and
the time when it was written, are unknown. It muft
have been made fince the publication of the Koran, be-
caufe the author, in many places, has evidently followed
it. In this verfion the Pentateuch is tranflated from the
Hebrew text; Job, from the Syriac; and the reft from
the Septuagint, and two other verfions of the Pentateuch,
the manufcripts of which are in the Bodleian library.
There are alfo fome Arabic tranflations of the Pfalms;
one printed at Genoa in 1516, the other at Rome in
1619 : And there is a manufcript verfion of the prophets
in this language preferved in the Bodleian library.
The gofpel being preached in all nations, there is no
doubt, but that the Bible, which is the foundation of
the Chriftian religion, was tranflated into the refpedive
languages of each nation. St Chryfoftom and Theodo-
ret both teftify, that the books of the Old and New Te-
ftament had been tranflated into the Syrian, Egyptian,
Indian, Perfian, Armenian, AEthiopic, Scythian, and
Samaritan languages. Socrates and Sozomen tell us,
that Ulphilas bifhop of the Goths, who lived about the
middle of the fourth century, had tranflated the holy
fcriptures into the Gothic language ; and pope John VIII.
gave his approbation to the verfion of the holy fcriptures
made into the Sclavonian.
JEthiopic Bible. The iEthiopic verfion of the Old
Teftament is made immediately from the Greek text of
the Septuagint; and there is a very plain agreement be¬
tween this tranflation and the Alexandrian manufcript:
The order of the chapters, the infcriptions of the Pfalms,
and every thing elfe being exadly alike. The Ethio¬
pians attribute this verfion to Frumentius, the apoftle of
Ethiopia, fent thither by Athanafius bilhop of Alexan¬
dria.
Coptic or Egyptian Bible. The Coptic or Egyptian
tranflation is likewife made from the Greek of the Sep¬
tuagint, in which the Egyptian tranflator fo punctually
followed the Greek text, that he refufed to make ufe of
the labours of Origen and others, who had been at the
pains
BIB ( 549 ) BIB
pairts to compare the Greek verfion with the Hebrew
text. We are quite in the dark as to the author and
the time of this verfion, but probably it is very ancient,
fince we cannot fuppofe the Egyptian church was long
without a tranflation of the fcriptures in their mother
tongue.
Perfian and Turkifh Bible. There are feveral ver-
fions of the Bible in the Perfian language, moft of which
are in manufcript. There is a tranflation of the Pfalms
by one father John, a Carmelite; and another of the
fame book done from the Latin, by the Jefuits. Wal¬
ton, in the London Polyglott, has publiflied the Gofpel^,
tranflated by one Simon the fon of Jofeph, a Chriftian of
Perfia, who lived in the year 1341. We have likewife
f'ome manufcript tranflations of the Bible in the Turkilh
language, particularly a verfion of the New Tellament
printed at London in the year 1666.
Armenian and Georgian Bible. The Armenians
have an old tranflation of the fcriptures in their language,
taken from the Greek of tlfe Septuagint. Three learned
Armenians were employed about it, in the time of the
emperor Arcadius, viz. Mofes firnamed the Grammarian,
David the Philofopher, and Mampraeus. The Arme¬
nians, in 1666, procured an edition of the Bible in their
language to be made at Amfterdam, under the direction
of an Armenian bilhop. Another was printed at Ant¬
werp in 1670, by the procurement of Theodorus Patrasus,
and the New Teftament feparately in 1668.
The Georgians have likewife a tranflation of the Bible ,
in the old Georgian language : But as this language is
known only to a very few perfons, and the people of the
country are extremely ignorant, there is fcarce any one
who either reads or underftands this verfion.
Whilll the Roman empire fubfifted in Europe, the read¬
ing of the fcriptures in the Latin tongne, which was the
univerfal language of that empire, prevailed every where.
But fince the face of affairs in Europe has been changed,
and fo many different monarchies erefted upon the ruins
of the Roman empire, the Latin tongue has by degrees
grown into difufe; whence has arifen a neceflity of tranf-
lating the Bible into the refpe&ive languages of each
people; and this has produced as many different verfions
of the fcriptures in the modern languages, as there are
different nations profeffing the Chriftian religion. Hence
we meet with French, Italian, Spanilh, German, Fle-
miih, Danifli, Sclavonian, Polifti, Bohemian, and Ruf-
Tian or Mufcovite Bibles; befides the Anglo-Saxon and
modern Englilh and Irifti Bibles.
French B/ble. The oldeft French Bible we hear of
is the verfion of Peter de Vaux, chief of the Waldenfes,
who lived about the year 1160. Raoul de Prefle tranf¬
lated the Bible into French in the reign of Charles V.
king of France, about the year 1380. Befides thefe,
there are feveral old French tranflations of particular
parts of the fcripture. The doctors of Louvain pub-
liftied the Bible in French at Louvain, by order of the
emperor Charles V. in 1550. There is a verfion by
Ifaac le Maitre de Sacy, publifhed in 1672, with ex¬
planations of the literal and fpiritual meaning of the text,
which was received with wonderful applaufe, and has
been often reprinted. As to the New Teftaments in
Vol. I. No. 23. 3
French, which have been printed feparately, one of the
moft remarkable is that of F. Amelotte of the oratory,
compofed by the direction of fome French prelates, and
printed with annotations in the year 1666, 1667, an<^
1670. The author pretends he had been at the pains to
fearch all the libraries in Europe, and collate the oldeft
manufcripts. But, in examining his work, it appears
that he has produced no confiderable various readings,
which had not before been taken notice of either in the
London Polyglott or elfewhere. The NewTeftament of
Mons printed in 1665, with the archbilhop of Cambray’s
permiftion, and the king of Spain’s licence, made a great
noife in the world. It was condemned by pope Clement
IX. in i6'68, and by pope Innocent XI. in 1679, an4
in 'feveral bilhopdcs of France at feveral times. The
New Teftament publiflied at Trevoux in 1702, by M,
Simon, with literal and critical annotations updn diffi¬
cult paffages, was condemned by the bifhops of Paris
and Meaux in 1,702. F. Bohours, a Jefuit, with the
affiftance of F. F. Michael Tellier, and Peter Bernier,
Jefuits likewife, publifhed a tranflation of the New Te¬
ftament in 169,7: But this tranflation is, for the moft:
part, harfh and obfcure, which was owing to the au¬
thor’s keeping too ftrittly to the Latin text from which
he tranflated.
There are likewife French tranflations publiflied by
Proteftant authors ; one by Robert Peter Olivetan, printed
at Geneva in 1535, and fince often reprinted with the cor-
reftions of John Calvin and others; another by Sebaftian
Caftalio, remarkable for particular ways of expreflion never
ufed by good judges of the language. John Diodati,
likewife publiflied a French Bible at Geneva in 1644;
but fome find fault with his method, in that he rather
paraphrafes the text than tranflatesit. Faber Stapalenfis
tranflated the New Teftament into French, which was
revifed and accommodated to the ufe of the reformed
churches in Piedmont, and printed in 1534. Laftly,
M. John LeClerc publiflied a New Teftament in French
at Amfterdam in 1703, with annotations taken chiefly
from Grotius and Hammond; but the ufe of this verfion
was prohibited in Holland hy order of the States-Ge-
neral, as tending to revive the errors of Sabellius and
Socinus.
Italian Bible. The firft Italian Bible publiftied by
the Romanifts, is that of Nicolas Malerme, a Benedidtine
monk, printed at Venice in 1471. It was tranflated
from the Vulgate. The verfion of Anthony Bruc. di,
publiflied at Venice in 15.32, was prohibited by the coun¬
cil of Trent. The Galvinifts likewife have their Italian
Bibles. There is one of John Diodati in 1607 and
1641, and another of Maximus Theophilus in 1551,.
dedicated to Francis de Medicis duke of Tulcany. The
Jews of Italy have no entire verfion of the Bible in Ita¬
lian ; the inquifition conftantly refufing to allow them the
liberty of printing one.
Spanijh Bible. The firft Spanifh Bible that we hear
of, is that mentioned by Cyprian de Valera, which he
fays was publiftied about the year 1 500. The Epiftles
and Gofpels were publiflied in that language byAmbrofe
de Montefin in 1512; the whole Bible by Caffiodore de
Reyna, a Calvinift, in 1569; and the New Teftament,
t 6 Z dedicated
BIB (5
dedicated to the emperor Charles V. byFrancis Enzjnas,
btherwife called Driandef, in 1543. The firft Bible
which was printed in Spanifh for the ufe of the Jews,
was that printed at Ferrara in 1553, in Gothic charac¬
ters, and dedicated to Hercules d’Eft duke of Ferrara.
This verfion is very ancient, and was probably in ufe
among the Jews of Spain before Ferdinand and Ifabella
expelled them out of their dominions in 1492
German Bible. The firft and moft ancient tranfla-
tion of the Bible in the German language, is that of Ul-
philas bifhop of the Goths, about the year 360. This
bifhop left out the books of Kings, which treat chiefly of
war, left it ftiould too much encourage the martial hu¬
mour of the Goths. An imperfedt manufcript of this
verfion was found in the abbey of Verden near Cologn,
written in letters of filver, for which reafon it is called
Codex Argtnteus ; and it was publilhed by Francis Junius
in 1665. The oldeft German printed Bible extant, is
that of Nuremberg, printed in 1447; but who the au¬
thor of it was, is uncertain. John Emzer, chaplain to
George duke of Saxony, publilhed a verfion of the New
Teftament in oppofition to Luther. There is a German
Bible of John Eckius in 1537, withEmzer’sNewTe-
flament added to it; and one by Ulembergius of Weft-
phalia, procured by Ferdinand duke of Bavaria, and
printed in 1630. Martin Luther, having employed ele¬
ven years in tranflating the Old and New Teftament,
publifhed the Pentateuch in 1522, the hiftorical books
and the Pfalms in 1524, the books of Solomon in 1527,
Ifaiah in 1529, the Prophets in 1531, and the other
books in 15 30: He publifhed the New Teftament in 15 2 2.
The learned agree, that his language is pure, and the
verfion clear, and free from intricacies : It was revifed
by feveral perfons of quality, who were mafters of all
the delicacies of the German language. The German
Bibles which have been printed in Saxony, Switzerland,
and elfewhere, are for the moft part the fame as that of
Luther, with very little variation. In 1604, John Pif-
cator publifhed a verfion of the Bible in German, taken
from that of Junius andTremellius: But his turn of ex-
preffion is purely Latin, and not at all agreeable to the
genius of the German language: The Anabaptifts have
a German Bible printed at Worms in 1529. John Crel-
lius publifhed his verfion of the New Teftament at Ra-
covia in 1630 ; andFelbinger his, at Amfterdam, in 1660.
Flemijh Bible. The Flemifh Bibles of theRomanifts
are very numerous, and for the moft part have no au¬
thor’s name prefixed to them, till that of Nicolas Vinck,
printed at Lovain in 1548. The Flemifh verfions made
ufe of by the Calvinifts till the year 1637, were copied
principally.from that of Luther. But the fynod of Dort
having in 1618 appointed a new tranflation of the Bible
into Flemifh, deputies were named for the work, which
was not finifhed till the year 1637.
Danijh Bible. The firft Danifh Bible was publifhed
by Peter Palladius, Olaus Chryfoftom, John Synningjus,
and John Maccabasus, in 1550, in which they followed
Luther’s fifft German verfion. There are two other ver¬
fions, the one by John Paul Refenius bifhop of Zealand,
in 1605; the other, being the New Tefthment only, by
John Michel, 101524.
50 ) BIB
Swedi/J) Bible. In 1534 Olaus and Laurence pub¬
lifhed a Swedifh Bible from the German verfion of Mar¬
tin Luther. It was revifed in 1617, by order of king
Guftavus Adolphus, and was afterwards almoft univer-
fally followed.
Bohemian, Pelijh, Ruffian or Mufcovite, and Sc/a-
vonian Bibles. The Bohemians have a Bible tranf-
lated by eight of their do&ors, whom they had fent to
the fchools of Wittemberg and Bafil, on purpofe to ftudy
the original languages. It was printed in Moravia in the
year 1539. The firft Polifh verfion of the Bible, it is
faid, was that compofed by Hadewich wife of Jagellon,
duke of Lithuania, who embraced Chriftianity in the year
1390. In 1599, there was a Polifh tranflation of the
Bible publifhed at Cracow, which was the work of fe¬
veral Divines of that nation, and in which James Wieck,
a Jefuit, had a principal (hare. The Proteftants, in'! 596^
publifhed a polifh Bible from Luther’s German verfion,
and dedicated it to Uladiflaus IV. king pf Poland. The
Ruffians or Mufcovites: publifhed the Bible in their lan¬
guage in 1581, It was tranflated from the Greek by
St Cyril, the apoftle of the Sclavonians; but this old
verfion being too obfcure, Emeft Gliik, who had been
carried prifoner to Mofcow after the taking of Narva,
undertook a new tranflation of the Bible in the Sclavo-
vonian ; who dying in 1705, the Czar Peter appointed
fome particular divines to finifh the tranflation : But whe¬
ther it was ever printed, we cannot fay,
Engitjh-Saxon, and modern Englijb Bibles. If wre
inquire into the verfions of the Bible of our own country,
we ftiall find that Adelm bifhop of Sherburn, who lived
in 709, made an Englifh-Saxon verfion of the Pfalms;
and that Eadfrid, or Ecbert, bifhop of Lindisferne,
who lived about the year 730, tranflated feveral of
the books of fcripture into the fame language. It is
faid likewife, that venerable Bede, who died in 785,
tranflated the whole Bible into Saxon. But Cuth-
bert, Bede’s difciple, in the enumeration of his mafter’s
works, fpeaks only of his tranflation of the Gofpel; and
fays nothing of the reft of the Bible. Some pretend,
that king Alfred, who lived in 890, tranflated a great
part of the fcriptures. We find an old verfion in the
Anglo-Saxon of feveral books of the Bible, made by El-
fric abbot of Malmefbury : It was publifhed at Oxford,
in 1699. There is an old Anglo-Saxon verfion of the
four Gofpels, publifhed by Matthew Parker, archbifhop
of Canterbury, in 1571, the author whereof is unknown.
Dr Mill obferves, that this verfion was made from a La¬
tin copy of the old Vulgate.
As to the Englifh verfions of the Bible, the moft an¬
cient is that of John de Trevifa, a fecular prieft, who
tranflated the Old and New Teftament into Englifh, at
the requeft of Thomas lord Berkley: He lived in the
reign of Richard II. and finifhed his tranflation in the
year 1357. The fecond author, who undertook this
work, was the famous WicklifF, who lived in the reigns -
of Edward III. and Richard II. The manufcript of his
verfion is in feveral libraries in England. In the year
1534, an Englifh verfion of the Bible, done partly by
William Tiadal, and partly by Miles Coverdale, was
brought
BIB (55
ferouglit into England from Antwerp. The bifhops found
great fault with this tranflation ; upon which a motion was
made in convocation for an Englilh tranflation of the Bible
te be fet up in all churches. This motion, though op-
pofed by biftiop Gardiner and his party, fucceeded at lafl.
The king gave orders for fetting about it with all poflible
hafle, and within three years the impreflion of it was fi-
nilhed. Cromwell procured a general warrant from the
king., allowing all his fubjedts to read it; for which
Cranmer wrote his thanks to Cromwell, ‘ rejoicing to
‘ fee the work of reformation now rifen in England,
* fince the word of God did now Ihine over it all without
* a cloud,’ Cromwell likewife gave out injudlions, re¬
quiring the clergy to fet up Bibles in all their churches,
and to encourage the people to read them. In 1542, an
ad pafled for reftraining the ufe of the Bible. The pre¬
amble fets forth, that ‘ many feditious and ignorant
* people had abufed the liberty granted them for reading
‘ the Bible; and that great diverfity of opinions, animo-
‘ fities, tumults, and fchifms had been occalioned by
‘ perverting the fenfe of the fcripture. To retrieve the
‘ mifchiefs arifing from hence, it is enaded, that a cer-
* tain form of orthodox dodrine be fet forth, as a flan-
‘ dard of belief; and that Tindal’s falfe Iranjlation of
* the Old and New Teftament be fupprefled, and for-
* bidden to be read in any of the king’s dominions.’ In
the reign of Edward VI. Fuller mentions another tranf¬
lation of the Bible, printed in two editions; the firlt in
1549, t*ie other in 1551, but neither of them divided
into verfes.
In the reign of queen Elizabeth came out the Bifliops
Bible, fo called, becaufe feveral of that order were con¬
cerned in that verfion. The work was divided into fe¬
veral parcels, and afligned to men of learning and cha-
rafter. Molt of the divifions are marked with great ini¬
tial letters, fignifying either the name or the titles of the
perfons employed. Archbifliop Parker had the principal
direction of this affair; he revifed the performance, and
perhaps put the finifhing hand to it. He likewife em¬
ployed feveral critics in the Hebrew and Greek lan¬
guages, to review the old tranflation, and compare it
with the original.
The laft Englifh Bible is that called King James’s
Bible, which proceeded from the Hampton-court confe¬
rence in 1603, where many exceptions being.made to the :
Bifliops Bible, king James gave orders for a new one,
not, as the preface expreffes it, for a tranflation altoge-r
ther new, nor yet to make of-a bad one a good one, but.
to make a good one better; or of many good ones, one
bell. Fifty-four learned perfons were appointed for this
office by the king, as appears by his letter to the arch¬
bifliop, dated in 1604, which being three years before
the tranflation was entered upon, it is probable feven of
them were either dead, or had declined, the talk, fince.
Fuller’s lift of the tranflators makes but forty-feven, who,.
being ranged under fix divifions, entered on their pro¬
vince in 1607. It was publiftied in 16.10, with a dedi¬
cation to king James, and a learned preface, and is com¬
monly called king James’s Bible. After this all other
verfions dropped, and fell into difufe, except theEpiftles
and. Gofpels in the Common-prayer book, which were
) B I C
ftill continued, according to the bifliops tranflation, till
the alteration of the Liturgy in 1661, and the Pfalms
and hymns, which are to this day continued as in the
old verfion.
The judicious Selden, in his Table-Talk, fpeaking
of the Bible, fays, ‘ The Englifli tranflation of the
‘ Bible is the heft tranflation in the world, and ren-
‘ ders the fenfe of the original heft, taking in for the
‘ Englilh tranflation the bifliops Bible, as well as king
‘ James’s. The tranflators in king James’s time took
‘ an excellent way. That part of the Bible was given
* to him who was moft excellent in fuch a tongue, (as
‘ the Apocrypha to Andrew Downs) and then they
‘ met together, and one read the tranflation, the reft
‘ holding in their hands fome Bible either of the learn-
‘ ed tongues, or French, Spanifh, Italian, tic. If
‘ they found any fault, they fpoke; if not, he read on.’
King James’s Bible is that now read by authority in
all the churches in England.
Irijb Bible. Towards the middle of the fixteenth
century, Bedell, biftiop of Kilmore, fet on foot a
tranflation of the Old Teftament into the Irilh lan¬
guage; the New Teftament and the Liturgy having
been before tranflated into that language. The biftiop
appointed one King to execute this work, who, not
underftanding the oriental languages, was obliged to
tranflate it from the Engliih. This work was received
by Bedell, who, after haring compared the Irifli
tranflation with the Englifli, compared the latter with
the Hebrew, the LXX. and the Italian verfion of
Diodati. When this work. was finiftted, the biftiop
•would have been himfelf at the charge of the impref-
fion, but his defign was flopped upon advice given to
the lord-lieutenant and the archbifliop of Canterbury,
that it would prove a fhameful thing for a nation to
publifti a Bible tranflated by fuch a defpicable hand as
King. However, the manufcript was not loft, for it
went to.prefs in the year. 1685.
BIBLIOTHECA, in its original and proper fenfe, de¬
notes a library, or place for repofiting books.
Bibliotheca, in matters of literature, denotes a trea-
tife, giving an account of all the writers on a certain
fubjedt: Thus, we have bibliothecas of theology, law,
phiiofophy, tic.
There are likewife univerfal bibliothecas, which
treat indifferently of all kinds of books ; alfo feleft
bibliothecas, which give an account of none but au¬
thors of reputation.
BIBLISTS, fo the Roman-catholics call thofe Chrifti-
ans that make fcripture the foie rule of faith; in which
fenfe, .all proteftants either are, or ought to be, bib-
lifts.
BIBRACH, an imperial city of Swabia in Germany, a-
bout twenty miles fouth-weft of Ulm; E.long. o° so',
and N. lat. 480 T2'. * ? 3 -
B3CANER, a city of Afia, in the country of the Mo¬
gul, . upon the Ganges. It is the capital of the
province of Bacar ; E. long. 870 20', N. lat.
28° 40V
BICAUDA, in ichthyology, a name given to the xiphi-
as, oriword-fifh. SccXiphias,
BICE,
BID ( 55
BTCE, or Bise, among painters, a blue colour prepa-
rcd from the lapis armenus.
-Bice bears the belt body of all bright blues ufed in
common work, as houfe-painting, <bc. but it is the
paieft in colour. It works indifferently well, but in¬
clines a little to Tandy, and therefore requires good
grinding. -Next to ultramarine, which is too dear to
be ufed in common work, it lies belt near the eye of
all other blues.
BICEPS, in anatomy, the name of feveral mufcles : As
the biceps humeri, or cubiti, biceps tibiae, drc,
BICHET, a quantity, or meafure of corn, which differs
according to the places where it is ufed. The bichet
is not a wooden rrieafure, as the minot at Paris, or
the bufhel at London, but is compounded of feveral
certain meafures. It is ufed in many parts' of
France, <bc.
Bichet, a certain quantity of land, namely, as much
as may be fown by a bichet of corn.
BICKERN, the beak-iron of an anvil. See the article
Anvie.
BICLINIUM, in Roman antiquity, a chamber with two
beds in it; or when two beds only were round a table.
See Table.
BICORNIS, in anatomy, a name for the os hyoides.
See Hyoides.
Bicornis mufculus, a name for the extenfor carpi ra-
dialis.
BIDDING of the banns, the fame with what is other-
wife called a/king. See Marriage.
Bidding, in a commercial fenfe, the offering a fum of
money, or a certain price, for any ware or merchan¬
dize ; and when any thing is fold by auftion, a perfon
who has a mind to have it, muff offer fomething more
for it than the perfon who hade laff.
BIDDER, he that bids money for any merchandize that
is felling by auftion : The beft, or laft bidder, is he
who offers molt money for it. See Sale.
BIDENS, in botany, a genus of the fyngenefia polyga-
mia aequalis clafs. The receptacle is paleaceous ; the
pappus has eredt fcabrous awns; and the calix is im¬
bricated. There are thirteen fpecies, only three of
which, viz. the tripartita or trifid water-hemp agri¬
mony, the cornua or whole-leaved water-hemp agri¬
mony, and the minima or leaft water-hemp agrimony,
are natives of Britain. The leaves of the bidens are
recommended for llrengthening the tone of the vifce-
ra, and as an aperient; and faid to have excellent ef-
fedts in the dropfy, jaundice, cahexies, and fcorbutic
diforders.
BIDENTAL, in Roman antiquity, a place blafled
with lightning, which was immediately confecrated by
an harufpex, with the facrifice of a bidens. This
place was afterwards accounted facred, and it was un¬
lawful to enter it, or to tread upon it; for which rea-
fon it was commonly furrounded with a ditch, wall,
hedge, ropes, &c. See the next article.
BIDENTALES, in Roman antiquity, priefts inftituted
to perform certain ceremonies and expiations when
thunder fell on any place. Their principal office was
the facrificing a Iheep of two years old, which, in La-
2 ) B I L
tin, is called bidens-, from whence the place ftrueft
with thunder got the name of bidental.
BIDON, a liquid meafure, containing about five pints
of Paris, that is, about five quarts Engliffi wine-mea-
fure. It is feldom ufed but among ffiips crews.
BIEL, a town of the canton of Bern in Switzerland, fi-
fuated at the north-end of a lake to which it gives
name, about fifteen miles north-weft of the city of
Bern, in 70 E. long. 47° 15' N. lat.
BIELSKI, a town* of Polachia in Poland, about fixty-
two miles fouth of Grodno ; E. long. 240, and N‘.
lat. 530.
Bielski, or Bihela, is alfo a town of Smolenflco, in
Ruffia; E. long. 350, and N. lat. 56° 40,.
BIER, a wooden machine for carrying the bodies of
the dead to be buried. See Burial.
BIENNE, in geography. See Biel.
BIGA, in antiquity, a chariot drawn by two horfes a-
breaft. Chariot-races, with two horfes,• were intro¬
duced into the Olympic games in the 93d Olympiad ;
But the invention was much more ancient, as we find
that the heroes in the Iliad fight from chariots of that
kind.
BIGAMY, the poffeffion of two hufbands or two wives
at the fame time. See Scots Law, tit. Crimes.
BIGEN, the name of a kingdom and city in Japon, in
the ifland Niphon.
BIGGLESWADE, a market town in Bedfordffiire, fi-
tuated on the river Ivel, about eight miles fouth-eaft
of Bedford; W. long. 20', N. lat. 520 5'.
BIGHT, among feamen, denotes one roll, or round, of
a cable or rope, when quoiled up.
BIGNESS, or Magnitude. See Magnitude.
BIGNONIA, in botany, a genus of the didynamia an-
giofpermia clafs. The calix confifts of five fegments,
and is iliaped like a cup; the faux of the corolla is bell-
ffiaped, and divided into five fegments; the pod has
two cells, and the feeds are membranaceous, and ala-
ted. The fpecies are feventeen, all natives of Ame¬
rica and the Indies.
BIGOREE, the fouth divifion of the province of Gaf-
cony, in France.
BIGOT, a perfon fooliffily obftinate and perverfely wed¬
ded to any opinion, but particularly an opinion of a
religious nature.
BILANDER, a fmall fiat-bottomed veffel, with only
one large maft and fail, and its deck raifed half a foot
above the plat-board.
BILATERAL, in a general fenfe, denotes fomething
with two fides. Hence,
Bilateral cognation, is kinffiip both by the father
and mother fide.
BILAWS. See By-laws.
BILBOA, the capital of the province of Bifcay, in Spain,
iituated near the mouth of the river Ibaicabal, which,
falling into the fea a little below it, forms a good har¬
bour; in 3°W. long, and 430 30^. lat.
BILBOWS, a puniffiment at fea, anfwering to the flocks
at land. The offender is laid in irons, or flocks,
which are more or lefs-ponderous according to the
quality of the offence of which he is guilty.
BIL
B I L ( 553 ) B I L
EILDESTON, a market-town of Suffolk, about ten
miles fouth-eaft of Bury, E. long 407, and N. lat.
520 20'.
BILDGE of a (hip, the bottom of her floor, or the
breadth of the place the (hip refts on when flie is a-
ground. Therefore, bildge-water is that which lies
on hej floor, and cannot go to the well of the pump :
And bildge-pumps, or burr-pumps, are thofe that car¬
ry off the bildge-water. They likewife fay the fliip is
bildged, when ihe has fome of her timber ftruck off on
a rock or anchor, and fprings a leak.
BILE, a yellow, bitter juice, feparated from the blood
in the liver, collected in the porus bilarius and gall¬
bladder, and thence difcharged by the common dudt
into the duodenum.
The bile is properly of two kinds, and is diflinguifh-
ed by the names of cyftic and hepatic. The hepatic
bile is thin, almoft infipid, and fcarce coloured; the
cyftic bile is thicker, more coloured, and very bitter.
See Anatomy, p. 265;.
BILEDULGERID, one of the divifions of Africa, ha¬
ving Barbary on the north, and Zaara or the Defart
on the fouth.
BILEVEST, a town of Weftphalia, in Germany, a-
bout feven miles fouth-eaft of Ravenfburg, E. long.
8° is', N. lat. 52°; It is fubjedt to the king of Pruflia.
BILGE. See Bildge.
BILIARY dutts. See Anatomy, p. 26J.
BILIMBI, in botany, a fynonime of the averrhoa. See
Averrhoa.
BILINGUIS, in a general fenfe, fignifies one that fpeaks
two languages; but in law, is ufed for a jury that
pafles in any cafe between an Englifhman and a fo¬
reigner, whereof part ought to be Englifh, and part
ftrangers.
BILOUS, in general, denotes fomething belonging to,
or partaking of, the nature of bile. Hence,
Bilious /even are thofe occafioned by the over-copi-
oufnefs, or bad qualities of the bile. See Medicine,
Offevers.
Bilious colic. See Medicine, Of colics.
BILL, an inftrument made of iron, edged in the form
of a crefcent, and adapted to a handle. It is ufed by
plumbers, to perform feveral parts of their work; by
bafket-makers, to cut the largeft pieces of chefnut-
trees and other wood; and by gardeners, to prune
trees. When ftiort, it is called a hand-bill, and when
long, a hedge-bill.
Bill, in Scots law, has two general fignifications : Eve¬
ry fummary application in writing, by way of petition,
to the court of feffion, is called a bill. But the word
more commonly denotes a ftiort obligation or mandate,
by which one perfon obliges himfelf to pay a fum of
money to another, or his order, againft a certain time;
or by which one perfon draws upon another for a fum
payable to a third perfon : By this laft kind of bill,
money-matters are commonly tranfa&ed betwixt the
inhabitants of different countries, and is called a bill
of exchange: When the parties concerned live in Scot¬
land, it is termed an inland bill. As to the folem-
nities of bills, methods of n.gotiating them, their le-
'V0l. I. No. 24. 3
gal privileges, See Scots Law, tit. Obliga¬
tions by word and writ.
Bill fignifies alfo a paper, either written or printed, in
very large charadters, which is polled up in fome open
and public place, to give notice of the fale of any
merchandize, or ihip, or of the failing of any vefiel
into foreign parts.
Bill in trade, both wholefale and retail, as alfo among
workmen, fignifies an account of merchandizes or
goods delivered to a perfon, or of work done for one.
Settled Bii.!., a bill, at the bottom of which th’ey to
whom the goods are delivered acknowledge that they
have received them; that they are fatisfied with the
price, and promife to pay it.
of credit, that which a merchant or banker gives
to a perfon whom he can truft, impowering him to re¬
ceive money from his correfpondents in foreign coun¬
tries.
Bill of entry, an account of the goods entered at the
cuftom-houfe, both inwards and outwards. In this bill
muft be exprefled, the merchant exporting or import¬
ing; the quantity of merchandize, and the divers fpe-
cies thereof; and whither tranfported, or from whence.
Bill of lading, an acknowledgment figned by the ma¬
iler of a ftiip, and given to a merchant, foe. contain¬
ing an account of the goods which the mailer has re¬
ceived on board from that merchant, foe. with a pro¬
mife to deliver them at an intended place for a certain
falary. Each bill of lading muft be treble, one for
the merchant who loads the goods, another to be fent
to the perfon to whom they are configned, and the
third fo remain in the hands of the mailer of the Ihip.
It muft be obferved, however, that a bill of lading is
ufed only when the goods, fent on board a ftiip, are
but part of the cargo : For when a merchant loads a
whole veffel for his own perfonal account, the deed
palled between him and the mailer of the ftiip is call¬
ed charter-party. See ChartsR-^tfr/y.
Bill of parcels, an account given by the feller to the
buyer, containing the particulars of all the forts and
prices of the goods bought.
Bill of fale, is when a perfon wanting a fum of money,
delivers goods as a fecurity to the lender, to whom he
gives this bill, impowering him to fell the goods, in
cafe the fum borrowed is not repaid, with intereft, at
the appointed time.
Bill 0/' fore, a licence granted at the cuftom-houfe to
merchants, by which they have liberty to carry, cu-
ftom-free, all fuch ftores and provifions as they may
have occafion for during their voyage.
Bill offcfferance, a licence granted to a merchant, at
the cuftom-houfe, fuffering him to trade from one
Englilh port to another,-without paying cuftom.
Bank-\*>VLL, a private inllrument whereby private per;
fons become intitled to a part in the bank-ftock. See
Bank.
Bill denotes alfo a declaration in writing, exprefling
either fome wrong the complainant has fuffered by the
defendant, or elfe a fault that the party complained
of has committed againft fome law or llatute of the
realm.
7 A This
t
B I L
This bill is fometimes exhibited to Juflices at the
general affixes, by way of indiftment, or referred to
others having jurifdi<ftion ; but more efpecially is ad-
dreffed to the lord-chancellor, for inconfcionable wrongs
done. It contains the thing or fa£t complained of,
the damage fuftained, and a petition or procefs againft
the defendant, for redrefs ; and is ufed both in cri¬
minal and civil cafes. In a criminal cafe, the words
Billa vera are indorfed by the grand jury upon a pre-
fentment, thereby fignifying, that they find the fame
made with probable evidence, and on that account'
worthy of farther confideration.
Bill in parliament, a paper containing propofitions of¬
fered to the houfes to be palled by them, and then
prefented to the king to pafs into a law.
Vni.h of attainder. See Attainder..
Bill of appeal. See Appeal.
Bill of msrtality. See Mortality.
BILLARD, a name given, in fome parts of the king¬
dom, to the young fifh of the gadus-kind. See Gadus.
BILLERECA, a market-town of Effex, about twenty
miles eaft of London, in E. long. 20', and N. lat.
BILLET, in heraldry, a bearing in form of a long
fquare.. They are fuppofed to reprefent pieces of
cloth of gold or filver; butGuillim thinks they repre¬
fent a letter fealed up ; and other authors take them
for bricks.
Billete fignifies that the efcutcheon is all over-ftrew-
ed with billets, the number not afcertained. See
Plate LI. fig. 15
BiLLET-'iofW, fmall wood for fuel, cut three foot and
four inches long, and feven inches and a half in com-
pafs ; the alfize of which is to be inquired of by juftices.
BILLETING, in military affairs, is the quartering of
foldiers in the houfes of a town or village. And, a-
mong fox-hunters, it fignifies the ordure and dung of
a fox.
BILLIARDS, an ingenious kind of game, played on
a reftangular table, covered with green cloth, and
placed exaftly level, with little ivory balls, which are
driven by crooked flicks, made on purpofe, into ha¬
zards or holes, on the edge and corners of the table,
according to certain rules of the game.
BILLINGH AM, a market-town of Northumberland, a-
bout twenty-five miles north-weft of Newcaftle, in
W. long. i° 40', and N. lat. 550 20 .
BILLITON, an ifland in the E. Indian ocean, lying
fouth-weft of Bornea, in i° 12' S. lat.
BILLON, in. the hiftory of coins, a compofition of pre¬
cious and bafe metals, where the latter predominate.
Wherefore gold under twelve carats fine, is called bil¬
lon of gold ; and filver under fix penny-weight, billon
of filver. So little attention was paid formerly to the
purity of gold and filver, that the term billon of gold
was applied only to that which.was under twenty-one
carats ; and'billon of filver to that which was lower
than ten penny-weight.
Billon, in geography, a town of the Lower Auvergne,
in the Lyonois in France, about ten miles fouth-eaft
of Clermont; E. long. 30 25^ and N. lat. 45° 40 =
I? I N
BILSDON, a market-town of Leicefterfhire, about fe“
ven miles fouth-eaft of Leicefter; W. long. 5c/, and
N. lat. 520 40'.
BILSEN, a town of Germany, about fix miles weft of
Maeftricht; E. long. 50 30V and N. lat. ;i°.
BIMEDIAL, in mathematics. If two medial lines, as
AB and BC, commenfurable only in power, containing
a rational reftangle, are compounded, the whole line
AC will be irrational, and is called a firft bimedial
line.
See Euclid, lib. X. prop. 38.
BIMINI, one of the Lucaya-iflands, in N- America,
to the fouth of the Bahama-iflands.
BIMLIPATAN, a port-town of Golconda in India, where
the Dutch have a fattory. It is lituated on the weft
fide of the bay of Bengal, in 83° E. long, and 180
N. lat.
BINARY arithmetick, that wherein unity, or 1 and o
are only ufed.
This was the invention, of M. Leibnitz, who fhews
it to be very expeditious in difcovering the properties
of numbers, and in conftrufling tables: and Mr
Dangecourt, in the hiftory of the royal academy of
fciences, gives a fpecimen of it concerning arithmeti¬
cal progreffionals; where he <hews, that becaufe, in
binary arithmetick, only two charafters are ufed, there¬
fore the laws of progreflion may be more eafily difco-
vered by it than by common arithmetic.
All the characters ufed in binary arithmetick are o
and 1, and the cipher multiplies every thing by 2, as
in the common arithmetic by 10. Thus 1 is one; 10,
two; 11, three; 100, four; 101, five; no, fix;
III, feven-. 1000, eight; 1001, nine; 1010, ten;
which is built on the fame principles with common a-
rithmetick.
The author, however, does hot recommend this
method for common ufe, becaufe of the great number
of figures required to exprefs a number; and adds,
that if the common progredion were from 12 to 12,
or fiotn 16 to 16, it would be ftill more expeditious.
Binary meafure, in mufic, is a meafure which is beaten
equally, or where the time of rifing is equal to that of
falling. This is ufually called common time. See
Music.
Binary number, that compofed of two units.
BINDBROKE, a market-town of Lmcolnfiiire, about
twenty-five miles north-eaft of Lincoln; E. long, t!,
and N. lat. 530 32'.
BINCH, a little fortified town of Hainault, ten miles
eaft of Mons; E. long. 40 20', and N. lat. 50° 30'.
BIND, a country-word for a ftalk of hops.
Bind of eels, a quantity, con filling of 250, or 10
ftrikes, each containing 25 eels.
BINDING, in a general fenfe, the fafiening of two or
more together by a vinculum or bond.
,Z?0<?/f-BiNDiNG. See Book binding.
Binding, among fencers, denotes the fecuring the ad-
verfary’s fword, which is effected by a preffure and
fpring from the wrift.
( 554 )
Binding,
B I R ( 555 ) B I R
Binding, in falconry, a term which implies tiling, or
when a hawk ftizes.
Binding and Loosing, in a theological fcnfe, the
fame with abfolution.
BIND-WEED, in botany. See Convolvulus.
BING, in the alum-works, denotes a heap of alum
thrown together in order to drain.
BINGEN, a town of the eledorate of Mentz, about
fixteen miles welt of that city; E. long. 70 20', and
N. lat. 50°.
BINGLEY, a market-town in the weft riding of York-
Ihire, about thirty miles weft of York; W. long. 10
40', and N. lat. 530 45\
BINN, in country affairs, a place boarded up to put
corn in.
BINOCULAR tclefcope, a kind of dioptric telefcope
iitted with two tubes, joined in fuch a manner that
one may fee a diftant objedt with both eyes at the fame
time.
BINOMIAL, in algebra, a root conlifting of two mem¬
bers connedled by the fign + or —. Thus a-\-h, and
8—3 are binomials, conlifting of the fums and differ¬
ences of thefe quantities. See Algebra, Chap. I.
BIOGRAPHER, one who writes the lives of particular
perfons, as Plutarch, Suetonius, <bc. See the next
article.
BIOGRAPHY, a fpecies of hiftory which records the
lives and charadters of remarkable perfons. This is
at once the moft entertaining and inftrudtive kind of
hiftory. It admits of all the painting and paffton of
romance; but with this capital difference, that our
paffions are more keenly interefted, becaufe the cha-
radters and incidents are not only agreeable to nature,
but ftridtly true. It is much to be regretted that this
kind of hiftory is fo much negledted. No books are
fo proper to be put into the hands of young people.
BIORNBURG, a town of Finland, fituated on the eaft-
ern Ihore of the Bothnic gulph; E. long. 210, and
N. lat. 62°.
BIOTHANATI, a term fometimes ufed for fuicides..
See Suicides.
BIOUAC, in military affairs, a night-guard, performed
by the whole army, when there is any apprehenllon of
danger from the enemy.
BIPENNIS, in Roman antiquity, an axe with a double
edge, one of which was ufed in ftabbing, and the other
in cutting.
BIQUADRATIC power. See Algebra, Chap. XIII.
Biquadratic root. See Algebra, Chap. XIII.
Biquadratic equation. See Algebra, Chap. XIII.
BIQUINTILE, an afpedt of the planets, when they are
144 degrees from each other.
BIR, a city of Diarbeck, or Mefopotamia, fituated on
the river Euphrates, about feventy miles fouth-eaft of
Aleppo, in 40° E. long, and 350 20 N. lat.
BIRCH-TREE, in botany. See Betula.
BIRD, in zoology. See Natural History, and.^
Avis.
Bird ej'paradije. See Paradisea.
2?/rfc^-Bird, the Englifh name of the turdus. See
Turdus.
Birds, in heraldry, according to their feveral kinds,
reprefent either the contemplative or adHve life. They
are the emblems of liberty, expedition, readinefs,
fwiftnefs, and fear. They are more honourable bear¬
ings than fifties, becaufe they participate more of air
and fire, the two nobieft and higheft elements, than
of earth and water.
Birds muft be borne in coat-armour, as is beft fit¬
ting the propriety of their natural adtions of going,
fitting, Handing, flying, fee.
Birds that are either whole footed, or have their
feet divided, and yet have no talons, are faid to be
membered; but the cock, and all birds of prey with
fharp and hooked beaks and talons, for encounter or
defence, are termed armed. In the blazoning of
birds, if their wings be not difplayed, they are faid to
be borne clofe; as, he beareth an eagle, &c. clofe.
Bird-call, among fportfmen. See Call.
Bird’s-eye, in botany. See Primula.
Bird-lime, a vifeid fubftance, prepared after different
wrays. The moft common bird-lime among us, is made
from holly-bark, boiled ten or. twelve hours; when
the green coat being fepnratcd from the other, it is
covered up a fortnight in a moift place, then pounded
into a tough pafte, fo that no fibres of the wood are
difcernible, and waftied in a running ftream till no
motes appear ; put up to ferment four or five days,
flammed as often as any thing arifes, and laid up for
ufe. To ufe it, a third part of nut-oil, or thin greafe,
muft be incorporated with it over the fire.
The Italians make bird-lime of the berries of the
mifleto-tree. That which comes from Damafcus is
fuppofed to be made of febeftens; and it is faid that
the bark of ourlantona, or way-faring (lirubs, will make
very good bird-lime.
BIREMIS, in Roman antiquity, a vefltl with two rows
of oars; concerning the difpofition of which authors
are not agreed.
BIRETUM, otBirretum, a fort of black bonnet, or
covering of the head, in form of a pyramid, much ufed
im Italy and France about five or fix hundred years
ago, as a badge of vidtory, honour, or facerdotal pie-
ferment.
BIRKENFIELD, a town of Germany, about 40 miles
weft of Mentz, fituated in 6° 4c/ E. long, and
45'N. lat.
BIRMINGHAM, a large populous town in Warwick-
fliire, about 16 miles north-weft of Coventry, fituated
in i° 5o/ W. long., and 520 30/ N. lat. It is remark¬
able for its iron manufaftory.
BIROTA, or Birotum, in Roman antiquity, a kind
of vehicle, fo denominated from its moving upon two
wheels. It carried about two hundred pound weight,
and was drawn by three mules.
BIRRUS, in Roman antiquity, a cloak, made of wool¬
len cloath, worn by the foldkrs: Alfo a robe worn
by the priefts or bifhops.
BIRTH, in midwifery, fignifies the fame.with delivery.
See Delivery, and Midwifery.
^9^-Birth. See After-£/W^.
Birth, or Birthing, in the fea-language, a conve¬
nient ■
BIS ( 55* ) BIS
nsent place to moor a fhip in; alfo a due diflance ob-
ferved by fliips lying at anchor, or under fail; and a
proper place aboard for a mefs to put their cherts, &c.
is called the birth of that mefs.
Birth-wort, in botany. See Aristolochi a.
B1RZA, a town of Samogitia, in Poland, about 42 miles
fouth-eaft of Mittau, fituated in 25° E. long, and 56°
35' N. lat.
EISA, orBiZA, a coin of Pegu, which is current there
for half a ducat. It is alfo a weight ufed in that
kingdom.
BISANT. See Besant.
BISCAY, the moft northerly province of Spain, from
which the bay of Bifcay takes its name.
ATew Biscay, a province of Mexico, having New-Me-
xico on the north, and Florida on the weft.
BISCHWELLER, a fortrefs of Alface, fubjedl to the
French, fituated about five miles weft of Port-Lewis,
in 70 E. long, and 48° 40' N. lat.
BISCHROMA, in mufic, the fame as our triple quaver.
See Chroma.
BISCUTELLA, in botany, a genus of the tetradyna-
mia filiculofa clafs. The pod is plain, compreffed,
roundifh, and bilobated above and below; and the ca-
]ix is a fmall leaf, gibbous at the bafe. The fpecies
are two, viz. the auriculata anddidyma, both natives
of Italy, &c.
BISERRULA, in botany, a genus of the diadelphia
decandria clafs. The pod is plain, and has two cells.
There is but one fpecies, viz. the pelecinus, a native
of Sicily.
BISERTA, a port-town of the kingdom of Tunis, in
Africa, fituated on the Mediterranean, near the place
where Utica anciently flood, and about forty miles
north of Tunis, in 90 E. long, and 370 N. lat.
BISHOP, a prelate, or perfon confecrated for the fpiri-
tual government of a diocefe.
In the primitive church, it appears that there was
but one bifhop in a church, and but one church to a
bilhop. The peculiar adts of the epifcopal fundtion
were, preaching the word, praying with the people,
adminiftering the two facraments of baptifm and the
eucharrft, taking care of the poor, ordaining of mini-
fters, governing his flock, excommunicating offenders,
and abfolving of penitents. The eledlion of a bifhop
was jointly in the hands of the clergy and laity of the
bifhopric or parifh which became vacant. When they
eledted a bifhop, they prefented him to the neighbour¬
ing bifhops, for their approbation and confent, with¬
out which his eledlion was not valid. A bifhop thus
chofen and ordained, always gave notice of his ad¬
vancement to the moft renowned bifhops of the church.
As to the form of ordination, it was thus: Two
bifhops held the book of the gofpels over the head of
that bifhop which was ordained, and whilft one pro¬
nounced the bleffing, or prayer of confecration, all the
reft of the bifhops that were prefent laid their Lands jp
upon his head.
In the church of Rome, the pope has the chief
right f eledting bifhops; neverthelefs, fome princes
have referred to themfelves the right of nominating to
bifhoprics, after which the pope fends his approbation,
and the bulls to the new bifhop.
When a perfon hears that the pope has raifed him
to the epifcopal dignity, he enlarges his fhaven crown,
dreffes himfelf in purple, and, if he be in Rome, he
muft go and receive the rochet from the pope: three
months after, having been confirmed in his eledtion,
be is confecrated in a very folemn manner.
Upon the vacancy of abifhop’s fee in England, the
king grants his conge d'ejlire to the dead and chapter,
to eledt the perfon whom, by his letters miffive, he
hath appointed; and if they do not make the eledtion
in twenty days, they are to incur a premunire. The
dean and chapter having made their eledtion accord¬
ingly, the archbifhop, by the king’s diredtion, con¬
firms the bifhop, and afterwards confecrates him, by
impofition of hands, according to the form laid down
in the Common Prayer-book. Hence we fee that a
bifhop differs from an archbifhop in this, that an arch¬
bifhop with bifhops confecrates a bifhop, as a bifhop
with priefts confecrates a prieft: Other diftindtions are,
that an archbifhop vilits a province, as a bifhop a dio¬
cefe ; that an archbifhop convocates a provincial fy-
nod, as a bifhop does a diocefan one; and that the
archbifhop has canonical authority over all the bifhops
of his province, as a bifhop has over the priefts of his
diocefe.
The jurifdidton of a bifhop of the church of Eng¬
land confifts in collating benefices, granting inflitutions,
commanding indudtions, taking care of the profits of
vacant benefices for the ufe of the fucceffors, confe-
crating churches and chapels, ordaining priefts and
deacons, confirming after baptifm, granting adminiftra-
tions, and taking probates of wills : Thefe parts of his
fundtion depend upon the ecclefiaftical law. By the
common law, he is to certify to the judges concerning
legitimate and illegitimate births and marriages : And
to his jurifdidtion, by the ftatute-law, belongs the li-
cenfing of phyficians, furgeons, and fchool-mafters,
and the uniting of fmall parifhes i which laft privilege
is now peculiar to the bifhop of Norwich.
All bifhops of England are peers of the realm, ex¬
cept the bifhop of Man, and as fuch fit and vote in the
Houfe of Lords : They are barons in a threefold man¬
ner, viz. feudal, in regard to the temporalities an¬
nexed to their bifhoprics; by writ, as being fummoned
by writ to parliament; and laftly, by patent and crea¬
tion : Accordingly they have the precedence of all
other barons, and vote as barons and bifhops, and
claim all the privileges enjoyed by the temporal lords,
excepting that they cannot be tried by their peers, be-
caufe, in cafes of blood, they themfelves cannot pafs
upon the trial, for they are prohibited, by the canons
-of the church, to be judges of life and death.
Bishop’s court, an ecclefiaftical court, held in the
cathedral of each diocefe, the judge whereof is the
bifhop’s chancellor, who judges by the civil and canon
law; and if the diocefe be large, he has his eommif-
faries in remote parts, who fiold what they call ( S«-
fijiory courts, for matters limited to them by their
commiffion.
Bi shop’s
BIS ( 557 ) B I T
Bi s hop’s-castle, a borough-town in Shropfliire, fitu-
ated on the river Ony, about 15 miles fouth-weft of
Shrewfbury, in 30 W. long, and $2° 30' N. lat.
Bishop and his clerks, feme little iflands and rocks
on the coaft of Pembrokefhii e, not far from St Da¬
vid’s, very fatal to mariners.
Bishop’s-stortford, a market-town in Hertfordlhire,
30 miles north of London, and only 10 miles north-
eaft of Hertford; in so* E. long. 510 3c/ N. lat.
BISHOPING, a term among horfe-courfers, to denote
the fophiftications uled to make an old horfe appear
young, a bad one good, 6"c.
BISHOPRIC, the diftridt over which a bilhop’s jurif-
didtion extends, otherwife called a diocefe.
In England there are twenty-four bilhoprics, and
two archbilhoprics; in Scotland, none at all; in Ire¬
land, eighteen bilhoprics, and four archbilhoprics.
BISIGNANO, a city of Hither Calabria, in the king¬
dom of Naples; in 160 45' E. long, and 390 50' N.
lat.
BISKET, a kind of bread prepared by the confedlioners,
of fine flour, eggs, and fugar, and rofe or orange-
water ; or of flour, eggs, and fugar, with anifeeds
and citron-peel, baked again and again in the oven, in
tin or paper moulds. There are divers forts of bilkets,
as feed-bilket, fruit-bilket, long bilket, round bilket,
naples-bilket, fpunge-bilket, <bc.
jS^-Bisket is a fort of bread much dried by palling
the oven twice, to make it keep for fea-fervice. For
long voyages they bake it four times, and prepare it
fix months before the embarkation. It will hold good
a whole year.
BISMILLA, a folemn form ufed by the Mahometans at
the beginning of all their books and other writings, fig-
nifying, In the name of the moji merciful God.
BISMUTH, a ponderous brittle femi-metal, refembling
zinc and the regulus of antimony, but differing greatly
from them in quality. It dilfolves with vehemence in the
nitrous acid, which only corrodes the regulus of anti¬
mony ; and is fcarce foluble in the marine acid, which
afts Itrongly on zinc. A calx and flowers 01 bifmuth
have been recommendetf as fimilar in virtue to certain
antimonial preparations ; but are at prefent of no other
ufe than as a pigment or cofmetic.
Bifmuth is fometimes found native, in fmall com¬
pact mafles, of a pale lead-colour on theoutfide, but a
filvery white within. It attepuates^ the parts of all
other metals, and thereby promotes their fufion. When
diflnlvedin ftrong acids, it yields-the famous cofmetic
magillery, and is a very valuable ingredient in the
mixed metals ufed in calling types, and for bell-metal.
Bifmuth is very common in Germany, and not un-
frequently found in the tin-mines of Cornwall, though
little known, or at leall regarded, there.
BISNAGER, the capital of a province of the fame name
in the higher peninfula of India; in. 78° E. long, and
140 N. lat.
JBISNOW, or Bischnou, a fe£l of the Banians in the
Eall Indies; they call their god Ram-ram,, and give
him a wife ; They adorn his image with golden chains,
necklaces of pearls, and.all forts of precious Hones.
Vol. I, No. 24. 3
Theyfing hymns in honour of their god,-mixing their
devotion with dances and the found of drums, flage-
lets, biazen bafons, and other inllruments. This fed
lives wholly upon herbs and pulfe, butter and milk.
BISOCHI, or Bizochi. See Bizoch'i.
BISOMUM, or Disomum, in Roman antiquity, a fe-
pulchre, or vault, containing two dead bodies. On
the tombs of the -primitive Chriflians were wont to be
inferibed the words bifomi, or trifmi, or quadrifomi,
<bc. that by thefe means they might the ealier calcu¬
late the number of their dead.
BISON, in zoology, the trivial name of k fpecies of bos.
See Bos.
BISQUET, or Bisket. See Bisket.
BISSACRAMENTALES, a denomination given to Pro-
ieftants, on account of their allowing of only two fa-
craments, viz. baptifm and the eucharift.
BISSECTION, in geometry, the4ivifionof a line, angle,
6vr. into two equal parts.
BISSELiEUM, among ancient naturalifis, denotes the
oil of pitch, more properly called pijj'elaum. See Pi s-
seljeum.
BISSEXTILE, in chronology, a year confifting of 366
days, being the fame with our leap-year. See Astro¬
nomy, Of the divifion of time.
BISTER. See Bistre.
BISTI, in commerce, a fmall coin of Perfia : Some fay
that it is among the current filver coins of Perfia,' and
worth only a little above three farthings of our money;
others fpeak of it again as a money of account.
BISTORTA, in botany, the trivial name of a fpecies of
polygonum. See Polygonum.
BISTOURY, in furgery, an inftrument for making in-
cifions, of whic-h there are different kinds, fome being
of the form of a lancet, others flrait and fixed in the
handle like a-knife, and others Crooked with the fliarp
edge on the infide. See Surgery.
BISTRE, or Bister, among painters, denotes gloffy
foot, pulverifed and made into a kind of cakes, with
gum-water. It is ufed to wafti their defigns. See
Washing.
BIT, or Bitt, an eflential part of a bridle. Its kinds
are various. i.Themufrol, fnaffle, or watering-bit.
2. The canon-mouth, jointed in the middle. 3. The
canon with a-faft mouth, all of a piece, only kneed
in the middle, to form a liberty or fpace for the tongue;
fit for horfes too fenfible, or ticklifh, and liable to be
continually bearing on the hand. 4. The canon-
mouth, with the liberty in form of a pigeon’s neck 4
proper where a horfe has too large a tongue. 5. The
canon with a port mouth, and an upfet or mounting
liberty; ufed where a horfe has a good mouth, but
large tongue. 6. The fcatch-mouth, with an upfet;
ruder but more feeure than a canon-mouth. 7. The
canon-mouth with a liberty; proper fora horfe with a
large tongue, and round bars. 8. The mafticadour,
-or-flavering-bit, he. The feveral parts of a fnaffle,
or curb-bit, are the mouth piece, the checks and eyes,
guard of the cheek, head of the cheeks, the port, the
welts, the campanel or curb and hook, the befles, the
bolfters and rabbets, the water-chains, the fide-bolts,
t 7 B bolts,
BIZ ( 558 ) B L A
bolts, and rings, kirbles of the bit or curb, trench, top-
rol, flap, and jeive. The importation of bits for bridles
is now prohibited.
Bit alfo denotes the iron part of a piercer, augre, and
the like inftruments.
Bit oZ a key, the part which contains the wards. See
Wards.
Bit, or Bitts, in fltip-building, the name of two great
timbers, ufually placed abaft the manger, in the Ihip’s
loof, through which the crofs piece goes : The ufe of
it is to belay the cable thereto, while the Ihip is at
anchor.
BITCH, the female of the dog kind. See Canis.
BITONTO, a city of the province of Barri, in the
kingdom of Naples, fituated about eight miles fouth-
weli of Barri, in 170 40' E long, and 410 20'N. lat.
BITTACLE, on Ihip-board, a fquare box (landing before
him that (leers th^lhip, with the compafs placed there¬
in, to keep and direft the Ihip in her courfe.
BITTER, an epithet given to all bodies of an oppofite
ta(le to fweetnefs. For the medical virtues of bitters,
fee Materia Medic a.
Bitter, a fea-term, fignifying any turn of the cable
about the bits, fo as that the cable may be let out by
little and little. And when a (hipis (lopped by a Cable,
(he is faid to be brought up by a bitter. Alfo that end
of the cable which is wound about the bits is called the
bitter end of the cable.
Bitter-apple, in botany. See Colocynthis.
Bitter-salt., See Epsom-salt.
Bitter-sweet, in botany. See Solanum.
Bitter-waters. See Water.
Bitter-wine. See Wine.
BITTERN, in ornithology. See Ardea.
Bittern, in the falt-works, the brine remaining after
the fait is concreted: This they ladle off, that the
fait may be taken out of the pan, and afterwards put
in again; when, being farther boiled, it yields more
fait. See Salt.
BITUMEN, in natural hiftory. See Asphaltum.
BIVALVES, a term fometimes ufed for fuch (hells as
confift of two pieces. It is alfo an appellation given
to fuch pods, or capfules, as confift of two valves in-
ciofing the feeds.
BIVENTER, in anatomy, called alfo digaftric, or two-
bellied, amufcleof the lower jaw. See p. 222. col. 1.
BIUMBRES, in geography, the fame with the amphifcii.
See Amphiscii.
BIXA, in botany, a genus of the polyandria mongynia
clafs. The corolla confifts of 10 petals; the calix has
five teeth-, mid the capfule is rough, and double-
valved. There is but one fpecies, viz. the orellana,
a native of America.
BIZARRO, in the Italian mufic, denotes a fanciful kind
of compofition, fometimes fad, (low, foft, ftrong, &c.
according to the fancy of the compofer.
BIZOCHI, or Bisochi, in church-hidory, certain he¬
retical monks, faid to have affumed the religious habit
contrary to the canons, rejected the facraments, and
maintained other errors.
BIZU, a town of Barbary, in Africa, in the kingdom of
Morocco.
BLACK, a well known colour, fuppofed to be owing to
the abfence of light; all the rays thereof being ab-
forbed by the black bodies. See Optics.
Black, among dyers, one of the five fimple and mother
colours ufed in dying. It is made differently, ac¬
cording to the feveral qualities of the duffs that are to
be dyed. For duffs of a high price, as woolen cloth
an ell and a half or an ell and a quarter wide, broad
and narrow rattens, fine woollen druggets, &c. they
mud ufe a black made of the bed Woad and indigo,
inclining to a bluifh brown. The goodnefs of the
compofition confids in there being not above fix pounds
of indigo ready prepared to each ball of woad, when
the latter, being in the tub, begins to cad its blue
flower; and in not being heated for ufe above twice;
after which it mud be boiled with alum, tartar, or
allies of lees of wine, then maddered with common
madder, and ladly the black mud be given with gall-'
nuts of Aleppo, copperas, and fumach. As for more
indifferent duffs, fuch as fmall rattens, and,(balloons,
as they cannot pay for the expence of maddering. it is
fufficient that they be well boiled with woad, and after¬
wards blacked with gall and copperas. There is like-
wife jefuits black, which is made with the fame ingre¬
dients as the good black, but without having nrff dyed
the duff blue.
Cnrrwtffl Black, called by fome Frankfort black, is made
with the lees of wine, burnt, walhed afterwards in
water, then ground in mills made for that purpofe, with
ivory, bones, or peach-dones, alfo burnt. It comes
from Frankfort, Mentz, and Stralbourg, either in
lumps or. powder, and mud be chofen mold, without
having been wetted, of a fine (hining black, foft, fri-
■ able, light, and. with as few fliining grains as poflible.
/very Black, otherwife cajled velvet black, is burnt
ivory, which becoming quite black, and being reduced
to thin plates, is ground in water, and made into tro¬
ches, to be ufed by painters, and by jewellers, who
fet precious dones, to blacken the ground of the col¬
lets, and give the diamonds a teint or foil. In order
to be good, it ought to be tender, friable, and tho¬
roughly ground.
2?c»£-Black is made with the bones of oxen, cows,
and is ufed in painting ; but is not fo much edeemed as.
ivory black.
if«rr’/-BLACK, that which remains in the retort after
the fpirits, volatile fait, and oil, have been extraffed
from hart’s-horn. It anfwers the purpofes of painters
almodas well as ivory-black.
Spanijh Black is nothing but burnt cork: It is ufed in
feveral works. It (hould be light, and have as few
grains of fand mixed with it as poflible.
Law/i-BLACK, or Z-^w-Black, the footy fmoke of ro-
fin. There is fome in powder and fome in lumps, and
is modly brought from Sweden and Norway, and pays
duty 11. 10s. 4t^'<I- tlie hundredweight. It is ufed
on various occafions, particularly for making the print¬
er’s ink, for which purpofe it is mixed with oil of wal¬
nuts, or linfeed, and turpentine,, all boiled together.'
.£W//$-Black, a fort of coals found in the ground*
with which the painters and limners ufe to paint in
frefco, after it has been well grounds
There
B L A
B L A
( 5
There is alfo a black made with gall-nuts, copperas,
or vitriol, fuch as common ink. And a black made
with filver and lead, which ferves to fill up the cavities
of ingraved things.
Currier’s BtACK, a black made with gall-nuts, four
beer, and old iron, termed the firfl: black. The fe-
cond black, which gives the glofs to the leather, is
compofed of gall-nuts, copperas, and gum-arabic.
Black-^w^, in geopraphy, a town of Ireland, about fe-
ven miles fouth of Armagh, in 6° 5c/ W. long, and
54° 12' N. lat.
BtACK-^rry, in botany. See Rubus.
Black-^o^ of the exchequer. See Exchequer.
BnACK-^aarK, a market-town of Lancalhire, about nine
miles eaft of Prefton, in 20 20' W. long, and 530 40'
N. lat.
BlacY.~ccipy in ornithology, the Englilh name of the
mufcicapa utricapilla. See Muscicapa.
Bl a c Y.-eagle. SeeFALCO.
HLkCK-ferefl, a part of Swabia, divided from Switzer¬
land by the river Rhine.
’BhA.CK.-game. See Tetrao.
Black-wut//, a link of mail, or fmall pieces of metal
or money. In the counties of Northumberland, Cum¬
berland, Weftmoreland, andfeveral parts of Scotland,
it was formerly taken for a certain rent of money,
corn, cattle, or other confideration, paid by poor peo¬
ple near the borders, to perfons of note and power,
allied with fome mofs-troopers, or known robbers, in
order to protect them from pillage.
BLACK-an&r. See Order,
Black-/-!?**. See Rod.
BLACK-ycv?, the fame with the Euxine fea, lying north
of Natolia, between 29° and 440 E. long, and 420
and 46° N. lat.
Black-//*?. See Tin.
BLACK-w^/er, the name of two rivers in Ireland; one
of which runs through the counties of Cork and Wa¬
terford, and falls in Youghal bay; and the other, af¬
ter watering the county of Armagh, falls into Lough
Neagh.
BLACKS, in phyfiology. See Negroes.
BLADDER, in anatomy. See p. 269. col. 2.
./^//--Bladder, in phyfiology. See Air.
0/7-Bladders. See Oil.
BL7ERIA, in botany, a genus of the tetrandria mono-
gynia clafs. The calix is divided into four fegments,
as alfo the corolla; the ftamina are inferted into the
receptacle; and the capfule has four cells, containing
many feeds. There is but one fpecies, viz. the cri-
coides, a native of the cape of Good Hope.
BL APART, in commerce, a fmall coin, current at
Cologn, worth fomething more than a farthing of our
money.
BLAIN, among farriers, a difiemper incident to beads,
being a certain bladder growing on the root of the
tongue, againft the wind-pipe, which fwells to fuch a
pitch as to flop the breath. It comes by great chaf¬
fing and heating of the ftomach, and is perceived by
the bead’s gaping and holding out his tongue, and
foaming at the mouth. To cure it, cad the bead, take
59 )
forth his tongue, and then, ditting the bladder, wadt
it gently with vinegar and a little fait.
BLAIR of Athol, a fmall town of Athol in Scotland,
fituated about twenty-eight miles north of Perth.
BLAIRIA, in botany. See Verbena.
BLAKEA, in botany, a genus of the dodecandria mo-
nogynia clafs. The calix has five leaves; the petals
are fix; the antherae are connected ; and the capfule
has fix cells. There is only one fpecies, viz. the tri-
nervia, a native of Jamaica.
BLAMONT, a town of Lorrain, about uwenty-eight
miles fouth-ead of Nancy, in E. long. 6° 45' and
N. lat. 48° 38'.
BLANC. See Blank.
YhLANtti-holding, in Scots law, a tenure by which the
vafial is only bound to pay an elufory yearly duty to
his fuperior merely as an acknowledgment of his right.
See Scots Law, tit. The feveral kinds of holdings.
Ctfr/^-BLANCHE. See Carte.
BLANCHING, in a general fenfe, denotes the art of
bleaching or whitening.
Blanching of copper is done various ways, fo as to
make it referable filver. If it be done for fale, it is
felony by 8 and 9 William III. chap. xxvi.
Blanching, in coinage, the operation performed on
the planchets or pieces of filver, to give them the re-
quifite ludre and brightnefs. They alfo blanch pieces
of plate, when they would have them continue white,
or have only fome parts of them burnifhed.
Blanching, as it is now pradtifed, is peformed by
heating the pieces on a kind of peel with a wood-fire,
in the manner of a reverberatory; fo that the flame
pafles over the peel. The pieces being fufficiently
heated and cooled again, are put fucceflively to boil in
two pans, which are of copper: In thefe they put-
water, common fait, and tartar of Montpelier. When
they have been well drained of this water in a copper
fieve, they throw fand and frefti water over them;
and when dry, they are well rubbed with towels.
Blanching, among gardeners, an operation whereby
certain fallets, roots, <bc, are rendered whiter than
they would otherwife be.
It is this: After pruning off the tops and roots of
the plants to be blanched, they plant them in trenches
about ten inches wide, and as many deep, more or
lefs, as is judged neceflary ; as they grow up, care is
taken to cover them with earth, within four or five
inches of their tops : This is repeated from time to
time, for five or fix weeks, in which time they will be
fit for ufe, and of a whitrfh colour where covered by
the earth.
Blanch 1 n<3 alfo denotes the operation of covering iron
plates with a thin coat or cruft of tin.
BLANCO, or CV/^-Blanco, a promontory of Peru,
in S. America, W. long. 8i°, and S. lat. 30 45''.
Blanco is alfo the name of one of the Antille-iflands,
on the coaft of Terra Firma, in VI. long. 64°, and
N. lat. 120.
C*7/>e-BLANCo is alfo a promontory of Africa, in iS5*
W. long and 20° N. lat.
BLANFORD, a market town of Dorfetfliire, ten miles
aortE
B L A ( 56o ) B L A
north of Pool, in 20 20 W. long, and 50° jo'
N. lat.
BLANKS, a port-town of Catalonia in Spain, E* long.
2° 40', N. lat. 410 jo'.'
BLANK, or Blanc, properly fignifies white. See
White.
Blank, in commerce, a void or unwritten place which
merchants fometimes leave in their day-books or jour¬
nals.
BLANK-for, in law, the fame with common bar. See
Bak.
BLANK-wr/d>, in the modern poetry, that compofed of a
certain number of fyllables, without the afliftance of
rhime. See Verse and Rhime,
jP<3.;«/-Blank. See PoiNT-i/tf«L
BLANKENBURG, a town of Dutch Flanders, eight
miles north-ealt of Oftend, in 30 E.long. and 510 20'
N. lat.
Blankenburg is alfo the name of a town in lower Sax¬
ony, about forty-five miles fouth-eaft of Wolfembuttle,
in ii° 15' E. long, and ji° jo'. N. lat.
BLANKET, a coverlet for a bed. A fluff commonly
made of white wool, and wrought in a loom like
cloth ; with this difference, that they are croffed like
ferges.
When they come from the loom, they are fent to
the fuller; and after they have been fulled and well
cleaned, they are naped with a fuller’s thiflle.
There are blankets made with the hair of feveral a-
nimals; as that of goats, dogs, and others.
French blankets, called Paris mantles, pay duty
12 s. 11 d. each, if coloured and the manufaflure of
France; otherwife only 5 s. iruu-d. If uncoloured,
and the manufacture of France, they pay each
9s. S-jVs-d. otherwife only js. ic>A^-d. Blankets
imported into France, pay a duty of importation ac¬
cording to their finenefs; namely, thofe of fine wool,
fix livres per piece ; thofe of coarfe and middling
wool, three livres. None can be imported but by the
way of Calais and St Vallery.
BLANOS, a maritime town of Spain in Catalonia, near
the mouth of the river Tordera.
BLANQUILLE, in commerce, a fmall filver coin cur¬
rent in the kingdom of Morocco, and all that part of
the coaft of Barbary; it is worth about three-half-pence
of our money.
BLARE, in commerce, a fmall copper coin of Bern,
nearly of the fame value with the ratz.
BLAREGNIES, a town of the Auftrian Netherlands,
about feven miles fouth of Mons; E. long. ,3° 55',
and N. lat. 50° 30V
BLASIA, in botany, a genus of the cryptogamia algae
clafs. The calix of what is called the male is cylin¬
drical, and full of grains ; the calix of the female is
naked, and inclofing a roundifh feed funk in the leaves.
There is but one fpecies, viz. the pufilla, or dwarf
blafia, a native of Britain.
BLASPHEMY, an indignity or injury offered to the
Almighty, by denying what is his due, and of right
belonging to him; or by attributing to the creature
that which is due only to the Creator.
BLAST, in a general fenfe, denotes any violent explo-
fion of air, whether occafioned by gun-powder, or by
the aflion of a pair of bellows.
Blasts, among miners, the fame with damps. See
Damps.
Blast, or Blight, in hufbandry. See Blight.
BLASTING, a term ufed by miners for the tearing up
rocks which lie in their way, by the force of gun¬
powder.
BLATTA, or Cockroche, a genus of infedls belong¬
ing to the order of hemiptera, or fuch as have four
femicruftaceous incumbent wings. The head of the
blatta is inflefted towards the breaft; the antennse, or
feelers, are hard like briftles; the elytra and wings are
plain, and refemble parchment; the breaft is fmooth,
. roundilh, and is terminated by an edge or margin; the
feet are fitted for running; and there are two fmall
horns above the tail. This infedt refembles the beetle;
and there are 10 fpecies; viz. 1. The gigantea is of a
livid colour, and has fquare brownilh marks on the
breaft. It is found in Afia and America, and is about
the fize of a hen’s egg. 2. The alba is red, and the
margin of the breaft is white. It is found in Egypt.
3. The furinamenfis is livid, and the breaft edged with
white. It is a native of Surinam. 4. The ameri-
cana is of an iron colour, and the hind part of the
breaft is white. The wings and elytra are longer than
its body. It is found in America and the fouth of
France. 5. The pivea is white, with yellow feelers.
It is a native of America. 6. The africana is afh-co-
loured, and has fome hairs on its breaft. It is found
in Africa. 7. The orientalis is of a dulky aih colour,
has ftiort elytra, with an oblong furrow in them. This
fpecies is frequent in America. They get into chefts,
be. and do much hurt to eloaths; they infeft peoples
beds in the night, bite like bugs, and leave a very un-
favoury fmell behind them. They avoid the light,
and feldom appear but in the night time. The female
refembles a kind of caterpillar, as it has no wings:
She lays an egg of about one half the bulk of her
belly. They eat bread, raw or dreffed meat, linen,
books, filk-worms and their bags, be. Sir Hans
Sloane fays, that the Indians mix their afties with fu-
gar, and apply them to ulcers in order to promote the
fuppuration. 8. The germanica, is livid, and yellow-
ilh, with two black parallel lines on the breaft. It is
found in Denmark. 9. The lapponica, is yellow, and
the elytra are fpotted with black. It is found in Lap-
land, and feeds upon cheefe, fifties, be. 10. The
oblongata, is of an oblong figure; the colour is livid
and ftiining; and it has two black fpots on the breaft.
The feelers are red and clavated; and the feet are
very hairy. It is a native of America.
Blatta byzantia, in pharmacy. See Unguis.
BLATTARIA, in botany. See Verbascum.
BLAVET, or Port-Lewis, a port-town of Brittany
in France, fituated at the mouth of the river Blavet;
W. long. 30, and N. lat. 47° 40'.
BLAWBUREN, a town of Swabia, in Germany, a-
bout eleven miles eaft of Ulm; E. long. 9s 45', and
N. lat. 48° 24'.
BLAYEj
B L A
BLAYE, a fortrefs of Guienne, in France, fituated on
the river Garonne, about twenty-one miles north of
Bourdeaux; W. long. 4J,> and N. lat. 45° 70'.
The intention of it is, to hinder any Ihip from go¬
ing to Bourdeaux without permiflion.
BLAZE, a white fpot in a horfe’s face.
Blaze. See Blare.
BLAZONING, or Blazonry, in heraldry, the decy¬
phering the arms of noble families.
The word originally fignified the blowing or wind-
B L E
ing of a horn, and was introduced into heraldry as a
term denoting the defcription of things borne in arms,
with their proper fignifications and intendments, from
an ancient cuftom the heralds, who were judges, had
of winding an horn at jufts and tournaments, when
they explained and recorded the atchievements of
knights.
BLEA, in the anatomy of plants, the inner rind or bark.
See Agriculture, Parti.
( )
BLEACHING.
BLEACHING is the art of whitening linen cloth,
thread, &c. ; which is condu&ed in the following
manner by the bleachers of this country.
After the cloth has been forted into parcels of an e-
qual finenefs, as near as can be judged, they are latched,
linked, and then fteeped. Steeping is the firft operation
which the cloth undergoes, and is performed in this
manner. The linens are folded up, each piece diftindt,
and laid in a large wooden veffel; into which is thrown,
blood-warm, a fufficient quantity of water, or equal parts
of water and lye, which has been ufed to white cloth only,
or water with rye-meal or bran mixed with it, till the whole
is thoroughly wet, and the liquor rifes over all. Then a
cover of wood is laid over the cloth, and that cover is fecu-
red with a poll betwixt the boards and the joifting, to pre¬
vent the cloth from rifing during the fermentation which
enfues. About fix hours after the cloth has been fteeped
in warm water, and about twelve in cold, bubbles of air
arife, a pellicle is formed on the furface of the liquor,
and the cloth fwells when it is not preffeddown. This
inteftine motion continues from thirty-fix to forty-eight
hours, acchrding to the warmth of the weather; about
which time the pellicle or fcum begins to fall to the bot¬
tom. Before this precipitation happens, the cloth ipuft
be taken out; and the proper time for taking it out, is
when no more air-bubbles arife. This is allowed to be
the jufteft guide by the moft experienced bleachers.
The cloth is then taken out, well rinfed, difpofed re¬
gularly by the felvage, and walked in the put-mill to
carry off the loofe dull. After this it is fpread on the
■field to dry: When thoroughly dried, it is ready for
bucking ; which is the fecond operation.
Bucking, or the application of falts, is performed in
this manner. The firft, or mother lye, is made in a
copper, which we fhall fuppofe, for example, when full,
holds 170 Scots gallons of water. The copper is filled
three fourths full of water, which is brought to boil:
juft when it begins, the following proportion of alhes is
put into it, viz. 30 lb. of blue, and as much white pearl-
afhes; 200 lb. of Marcoft afhes, (dr, if they have not
thefe, about 300 lb. of Calhub); 300 lb. of Mufcovy,
dr blanch afhes ; the three laft ought to be well pounded.
Vol. I. Numb. 24. 3
This liquor is allowed to boil for a quarter of an hour,
ftirring the afhes from the bottom very often; after
which the fire is taken away. The liquor muft ftand till
it has fettled, which takes at leaft fix hours, and then it
is fit for ufe.
Out of their firft, or mother-lye, the fecond, or that
ufed in bucking, is made in this manner. Into another
copper, holding, for example, 40 Scots gallons, are put
38 gallons of water, 2 lb. foft foap, and 2 gallons of
mother-lye ; or, for cheapnefs, in place of the foap, when
they have lye which has been ufed to white linen, called
nuhite-linen lye-, they take 14 gallons of it, leaving out
an equal quantity of water. This is called bucking-lye.
After the linens are taken up from the field dry, they
are fet in the vat or cave, as their large veffel is called,
in rows, endwife, that they may be equally wet by
the lye; which, made blood-warm, is now thrown on
them, and the cloth is afterwards fqueezed down by a
man with wooden fhoes. Each row undergoes the fame
operation, until the veffel is full, or all the cloth in it. At
firft the lye is put on milk-warm, and, after Handing a
little time on the cloth, it is again let off by a cock into
the bucking-copper, heated to a greater degree, and then
put on the cloth again. This courfe is repeated for fix
or feven hours, and the degree of heat gradually increa-
fed, till it is, at the laft turn or two, thrown on boiling
hot. The cloth remainsafter thisfor three orfourhours
in the lye; after which the lye is let off, thrown away,
or ufed in the firft buckings, and the cloth goes on to an¬
other operation.
It is then carried out, generally early in the morning,
fpread on the grafs, pinned, corded down, expofed to
the fun and air, and watered for the firft fix hours, fo
often, that it never is allowed to dry. Afterwards it is
allowed to lie till dry fpots appear before it is watered.
After ftven at night it gets no more water, unlefs it be a
very dr\ing night. Next day, in the morning and fore-
fioon, it is watered twice or thrice if the day be very
dry; but if the weather be not drying, it gets no wa¬
ter: After which it is taken up dry if the green be
clean ; if not, it is rinfed, mill-waftied, and laid out to
dry again, to become fit for bucking,
f 7 C This
5^2 B L E A C
This alternate courfe of bucking and watering, is per¬
formed for the raoftpart, from ten to fixteen times, or more,
before the linen is fit for fouring ; gradually increafing the
ftrength of the lye from the firlt to the middle bucking, and
from that gradually decreafing it till the’fouring begins.
The lyes in the middle buckings are generally about a
third ftronger than the firft and lall.
Souring, or the application of acids to cloth, is the
fourth operation. It is difficult to fay when this opera¬
tion ffiould commence, and depends moftly on the (kill
and experience of the bleacher. When the cloth has an
equal colour, and is moftly freed from the fprat, or
outer bark of the lint, it is then thought fit for fouring ;
which is performed in the following manner. Into a
large vat or veffel is powered fuch a quantity of butter¬
milk, or four milk, as will fufficiently wet the firlt row
of cloth; which is tied up in loofe folds, and prelfed
down by two or three men bare-footed. If the milk is
thick, about an eighth of water is added to it; if thin,
no water. Sours made with bran, or rye-meal and wa¬
ter, are often ufed inftead of milk, and ufed milk-warm.
Oyer the firit row of cloth a quantity of milk and water
is thrown, to be imbibed by the fecond; and fo it is
continued till the linen to be foured is fuffieiently wet,
and the liquor rifes over the whole. The cloth is then
kept down by covers filled with holes, and fecured with
a poll fixed to the joift, that it may not rife. Some
hours after the cloth has been in the four, air-bubbles
arife, a white feum is found on the furface, and an inte-
fline motion goes on in the liquor. In warm weather it
appears fooner, is ftronger, and ends fooner, than in
cold weather. Juft before this fermentation, which lafts
live or fix days, is finiffied, at which time the feum falls
down, the cloth ffiould be taken out, rinfed, mill-waffied,
and delivered to the women to be waffied with foap and
water.
Walking with foap and water, is the fifth operation j
and is performed thus. Two women are placed oppofite
at each tub, which is made of very thick ftaves, fo that
the edges, which Hope inwards, are about four inches in
thicknefs. A finall veflel full of warm water is placed
in each tub. The cloth is folded fo that the felvage
may be firft rubbed with foap and warm water length¬
ways, till it is fufficiently impregnated with it. In this
manner all the parcel'is rubbed with foap, and afterwards
carried to be bucked.
The lye now ufed has no foap in it, except what it
gets from the cloth ; and is equal in ftrength to the
ftrongeft formerly ufed, or rather ftronger, becaufe the
cloth is now put in wet. From the former operation
thefe lyes are gradually made ftronger, till the cloth
feems of an uniform white, nor any darknefs or brown
colour appears in its ground. After this the lye is more
fpeedily weakened than it was increafed * fo that the laft
which the cloth gets, is weaker than any it got before.
But the. management of fours is differentfor they
are ufed ftrongeft at firft, and decreafed fo in ftrength,
that the laft four, confidering the cloth is then always
taken up wet, may be reckoned to contain three fourths
of water..
KING.
From the bucking it goes to the watering, as former6-
ly, obferving only to overlap the felvages, and tie it
down with cords, that it may not tear; then it returns
to the four, milling, wafting, bucking, and watering a-
gain, Thefe operations fucceed one another alternately
till the cloth is whitened; at which time it is blued,
ftarched, and dried.
This is the method ufed in the whitening fine cloths'-.
The following is the method ufed in the whitening of
coarfe cloths.
Having forted the cloths, according to their quality,
they are fteeped in the fame manner as the fine, rinfed,
waflied in the mill, and dried before boiling.
In this procefs, boiling fupplies the place of bucking,
as it takes lefs time, and confequently is thought cheap-
eft. It is done in the following manner : 200 ft. cafhuh
affies, 100 ft. white Mufcovy, and 30 ft. pearl-affies,
boiled in 105 Scots gallons of water for a quarter of an
hour, as in the procefs for the fine cloth, makes the mo¬
ther or firft lye; The cloth-boiler is then to be filled
two thirds full with water and mother-lye, about nine
parts of the former to one of the latter ; fo that the ly$
ufed for boiling the coarfe cloth, is about a third weaker
than that ufed in bucking the fine. Such a quantity of
cloth is put into the foregoing quantity of lye, when
cold, as can be well covered by it. The lye is brought
gradually to the boil, and kept boiling for two hours ; the
cloth being fixed down all the time, that it does not
rife above the liquor. The cloth is then taken out,
Ipread on the field, and watered, as mentioned before in
the fine cloth.
As the falts of the lye are not exhaufted by this boil¬
ing, the fame is continued to be ufed all that day, add¬
ing, at each boiling, fo much of the mother-lye as will
bring it to the fame ftrength as at firft. The lye by boil¬
ing lofes in quantity fomewhat betwixt a third and a
fourth ; and they reckon that in ftrength it lofes about a
half, becaufe they find in pradice, that adding to it
half its former ftrength in freffi lye, has the fame effed
on cloth. Therefore fome frdh lye, containing a fourth
part of the water, and the half of the ftrength of the firft
lye, makes the fecond boiler equal in ftrength to the
firft. 1 To the third boiler they add fomewhat more than
the former proportion, and go on ftill increafing gradu¬
ally to the fourth and fifth, which is as much as can be
done in a day. The boiler is then cleaned, and nexf
day they begin with freffi lye. Thefe additions of freffi
lye ought always to be made by the mafter-bleacher, as
it requires judgment to bring fucceeding lyes to the fame
ftrength as the firft.
When the cloth comes to get the fecond boiling, the
lye ffiould be a little ftronger, about a thirtieth part, and
the deficiencies made up in the fame proportion. For fix.
or feven boilings, or fewer, if the cloth be thin, the lye
is increafed in this way, and then gradually diminiflied
till the cloth is fit for fouring. The whiteft cloth ought
always to be boiled firft,' .that it may not be hurt by what
goes before.
In this procefs, if the cloth cannot be got dry for boil¬
ing,, bufinefs does not flop as in the fine ; for after the
„ coarfe
B L E A C
coarfe has dreeped on racks made for the purpofe, it is
boiled, making the lye ftrong in proportion to the water
in the cloth.
The common method of fouring coarfe linen is, to
mix fome warm water and bran in the vat, then put a
layer of cloth, then more bran, water, and cloth; and
fo on, till the cave is full. The whole is tramped with
mens feet, and tixed as in the former procefs. A thou-
fand yards of cloth, yard-broad, require betwixt four
and fix pecks of bran. The cloth generally lies about
three nights and two days in the four. Others prepare
their four twenty-four hours before, by mixing the bran
with warm water in a feparate veflel; and before pouring
it on the cloth, they dilute it with a fufficient'quantity
of water. After the cloth is taken from the four, it
ought to be well walked and rinfed again. It is then
given to men to be well foaped on a table, and after¬
wards rubbed betwixt the rubbing-boards. When it
comes from them, it faould be well milled, and warm
water poured on it all the time, if conveniency will al¬
low of it. Two or three of thefe rubbings are fufficient,
and the cloth very feldom requires more.
The lye, after the fouring begins, is decreafed in
flrength by degrees ; and three boilings after that are
commonly fufficient to liniih the cloth. Afterwards it is
Hatched, blued, dried, and bittled in a machine made
for. that purpofe, which fupplies the place of a calendar,
and is preferred by many to it.
This method ufed in the bleaching of our coarfe cloths,
is very like that pradifed in Ireland for both fine and
coarfe. The only material difierence is, that there the
bleachers ufe no other affies but the kelp or caffiub. A
lye is drawn from the former by cold water, which dif-
folves the falls, and not the fulphureous particles of the
kelp allies. This lye is ufed till the cloth is half whi¬
tened, and then they lay aiide the kelp-lye for one made
of caffiub affies.
In the preceding hiftory of bleaching we may obferve,
that it naturally divides itfelf into feveral different
branches or parts, all tending to give linen the degree
of whitenefs required. How they effie&uate that comes
next to be confidered.
The general procefs of bleaching divides itfelf in¬
to thefe different parts. i. Steeping and milling. 2.
Bucking and boiling. 3. Alternate watering and drying.
4. Souring. 5. Robbing with foap and warm water,
Harching, and bluing. We ffiall treat of thefe different
parts in their order.
STEEPING,
Green linen, in the different changes wlfich it has
undergone before it arrives at that Hate, contracts a
great foulnefs. This is chiefly communicated to it by
the dreffing compofed of tallow and fowen,. which is a
kind of flummery made of bran, flour, or oat-meal
feeds. The firffi thing to be done in the. bleachfield is to
take off all that filth which is foreign to the flax, would
blunt the future adtion of the falls, and might, in unfltil-
ful hands, be fixed in the cloth. This is the defign of
Heeping..
H I N G. 5
To accompliffi this end, the cloth is laid to ffeep in
blood-warm water. A fmaller degree of heat would not
diffolve the dreffing fo foon ; and the greater might co¬
agulate and fix, in the body of the linen, thofe particles
which we defign to carry off. In a few hours the dref¬
fing made ufe in weaving is diffolved, mixed with the
water; and, as it had acquired fome degree of acidity,
before application, it becomes a fpecies of ferment. Each
ferment promotes its own particular fpecies of ferment¬
ation, or intefline motion; the putrid ferment fets in
motion the putrefactive fermentation ; the vinous ferment
gives rife to the vinous fermentation; and the acid fer¬
ment to the acetous fermentation. That there is a real
fermentation going on in fteeping, one muff be foon con¬
vinced, who attends to the air-bubbles which immediate¬
ly begin to arife, to the feum which gathers on the fur-
face, and to the inteftine motion and fwelling of the
whole liquor. That it murt be the acetous fermentation,
appears, from this, that the vegetable particles, already
in part foured, mull firll undergo this procefs.
The effedt of all fermentations is to fet the liquor in
motion ; to raife in it a degree of heat; and to emit air-
bubbles, which, by carrying up fome of the light oleagi¬
nous particles along with them, produce a feum. But
as the dreffing is in fmall quantity in proportion to thj
water, thefe effedts are gentle and flow. The acid fairs
are no fooner feparated, by the acetous fermentation,
from the abforbent earth, which made them not percep¬
tible to the tongue in their former Hate, than they are
united to the oily particles of the tallow, which likewife
adhere fuperficially, diffolve them, and render them, in
fome degree, miffible with water. In this Hate they are
foon waffied off by the intefline motion of the liquor.
The confequence of this operation is, that the cloth
comes out freed in a great meafure from its fuperficial
dirt; and more pliant and foft than what it was.
Whenever this inteftine motion is pretty much abated,
and before the feum fubfides, bleachers take out their
cloth. The feum, when no more air-bubbles rife to fuppoi t
it,, feparates, and falls down ; and would again commu¬
nicate to the cloth great part of the filth. But a longer
flay would be attended with a much greater difadvantage.
The putrid follows clofetipon the acetous fermentation :
When the latter ends, the former begins. Were this to
take place, in any. confiderable degree, it would render
the cloth black and tender. Bleachers cannot be too care¬
ful in this article.
The firft queftion that arifes to be determined on thefe
principles is. What is the propereft liquor for fteeping
cloth ? Thofe ufed by bleachers are plain water; white-
linen lye and water, equal parts; and rye-meal orbran
mixed with water. They always make ufe of ly6 when
they have it.
After fteeping, the clotb is carried to the putftock-
mill, to be freed of all its loofe foulnefs. There can be
nothing contrived fo effedtual to anfwer the purpofe as
this mill. Its motion is. eafy, regular, and fafe. While
it preffes gently, it turns the cloth; which is continually
waffied with a ftream of water. Care muft be taken that
no water be detained in the folds of the linen, otherwife
that part may be damaged.
BUCKING.
5^4
B L E A
C H I N G.
BUCKING and BOILING.
Th i s is the moft important operation of the whole
proceis, and deferves a thorough examination. Its de-
fign is to loofen, and carry off, by the help of alkaline
lixives or lyes, that particular fubftance in cloth, which
is the caufe of its brown colour.
All afhes ufed in lye, the pearl excepted, ought to be
well pounded, before they are put into the copper; for
the Marcoft and Cafliub are very hard, and with fome
difficulty yield their falts. As thefe two laft contain a
very confiderable proportion of a real fulphureous matter,
which muft in fome degree tinge white cloth ; and as this
is diffolved much more by boiling, than by the inferior
degrees of heat, while the falts may be as well extrafted
by the latter. The water ffiould never be brought to
boil, and fhould be continued for fome time longer under
that degree of heat. The pearl-afhes fhould never be
put in till near the end, as they are eafily diffolved in
water.
If the falts were always of an equal flrength, the
fame quantities would make a lye equally ftrong; but
they are not. Salts of the fame name* differ very much
from one another. The Mufcovy afhes are turning
weaker every day; as every bleacher muft have obferved,
till at laft they turn quite effete. A deco&ion from them
when new, muft differ very much from one when they
have been long kept. Hence a neceflity of fome exaft
criterion to«difcover when lyes are of an equal ftrength.
The tafte cannot ferve, as that is fo variable, cannot be
defcribed to another, and is blunted by repeated trials.
The proof-ball will ferve the purpofe of the bleachfield
fufficiently ; and, by difcovering the fpecific gravity, will
fhow the quantity of alkaline falts diffolved. But it
cannot fhow the dangerous qualities of thefe falts; for
the lefs cauftic and lefs heavy this liquor is, the more
dangerous and corrofive it may be for the cloth.
The third lye, which they draw from thefe materials
by an infufion of cold water, in which the tafte of lime
is difcoverable, <• appears plainly to be more dangerous
than the firft. The fecond lye, which they extradf from
the fame afhes, and which is reckoned about a third in
ftrength, when compared to the Srft, muft be of the fame
nature ; nor fhotdd it be ufed without an addition of
pearl-afhes, which will corredl it.
It i^ taken for a general rule. That the folution of any
body in its menftruum is equally diffufed through the
whole liquor. The bleachers depending on this, ufe e-
qual quantities of the top and bottom of their lye, when
once clear and fettled; taking it for granted, that there
is an equal quantity of falts in equal quantities of the lye.
But if there is not, the miftake may be of fatal confe-
quence, as the lye may be in fome places ftronger than
what the cloth can with fafety bear. That general law
■of folution muft have taken its rife from particular expe¬
riments, and not from reafoning. Whether a fufficient
number of experiments have been tried to afcertain this
point, and to eftabiifh an undoubted general rule, may
be called in queftion.
“ But, fays Dr Home, when I had difcovered that
lime makes part of the diffolved fubftance, and refleAed
how long its groffer parts will continue fufpended in wa¬
ter, there appeared ftronger reafons for fufpefting that
this rule, though it may be pretty general, does not take
place here ; at leaft it is worth the purfuit of experiment.
“ I weighed at the bleachfield a piece of glafs in fome
cold lye, after it had been boiled, flood for two days,
and about the fourth part of it had been ufed. The glafs
weighed 3 drachms i4 grains in the lye, and 3 drachms
grains in river-water. The fame glafs weighed in
the fame lye, when almoft all ufed, 2 grains lefs than it
had done before. This {hows, that the laft of the lye
contained a third more of the diffolved body; and, con-
fequently, was a third ftronger than the firft of the lye.
“ As this might, perhaps, be owing to a continuation
of the folution of the falts, I repeated the experiment in
a different way.
“ I took from the furface fome of the lye, after the
falts were diffolved, and the liquor was become clear.
At the fame time I immerfed a bottle, fixed to a long
ftick, fo near the bottom, as not to raife the afhes there,
and, by pulling out the cork by a firing, filled the bottle
full of the lye near the bottom. The glafs weighed in
rivet-water 3 drachms 384 grains ; in the lye taken irom
the furface 3 drachms 3^4 grains; and in the lye taken
from the bottom 3 drachms 314 grains. This experi¬
ment (hows, that the lye at the bottom was, in this cafe,
4 ftronger then the lye at the furface.
“ At other times when I tried the fame experiment,
I found no difference in the fpecific gravity; and there¬
fore, I leave it as a queftion yet doubtful, though de-
ferving to be afcertained by thofe who have an oppor¬
tunity of doing it. As the lye (lands continually on the
allies, there can be no doubt but what is ufed laft muft
be ftronger than the firft. I would, therefore, recom¬
mend, to general pradlice, the method ufed by Mr John
Chriftie, who draws off the lye, after it has fettled, into
a fecond receptacle, and leaves the afhes behind. By
this means it never can turn ftronger; and he has it in
his power to mix the top and bottom, which cannot be
done fo long as it (lands on the afties.”
Having confidered the lye, let us next inquire how it
adls. On this inquiry depends almoft the whole theory
of bleaching, as its a<£tion on cloth is, at leaft in this
country, abfolutely neceffary. It is found by experiment,
that one effett they have on cloth, is the diminifhing of
its weight; and that their whitening power is, generally,
in proportion to their weakening power. Hence arifes a
probability, that thefe lyes aft by removing fomewhat
from the cloth, and that the lofs of this fubftance is the
caufe of whitenefs. This appears yet plainer, when the
bucking, which lads from Saturday night to Monday
morning is attended to.
There are various and different opinions with regard
to the operation of thefe falts: That they aft by alter¬
ing the external texture of the cloth, or by feparating
the mucilaginous parts from the reft, or by extrafting
the oil which is laid up in the cells of the plant The
laft is the general opinion, or rather conjefture, for none
of them deferves any better name ; but may we venture to
affirm, that it is fo without any better title to pre-emi¬
nence.
BLEACHING.
nence, than what the others have. Alkaline falls diflblve
oils, therefore thefe falts difi'olve the cellular oil of the
cloth, is all the foundation which this theory has to reft
on ; too flight, when unfupported by experiment, to be
relied on.
Dr Home endeavours to fettle this queftion by the fol¬
lowing experiments and obfervations.
“ Wax, fays he, is whitened by being expofed to the
influence of the fun, air, and moifture. A difcovery of
the changes made on it by bleaching, may throw a light
upon the queftion.
“ Six drachms of wax were fliced down, expofed on a
fouth window, Sept. 10. and watered. That day being
clear and warm, bleached the wax more than all the fol¬
lowing. It feemed to me to whiten quicker when it had
no water thrown on it, than when it had. Sept. 15. it
was very white, and 1 drachm 3 grains lighter.
drachms of this bleached wax, and as much of unbleach¬
ed, taken from the fame piece, were made into two
candles of the fame length and thicknefs, having cotton
wicks of the fame kind. The bleached candle burned
one hour thirty-three minutes; the unbleached three mi¬
nutes longer. The former run down four times, the lat¬
ter never. The former had an obfcure light and dull
flame; the latter had a clear pleafant one, of a blue co¬
lour at the bottom. The former when burning feemed
to have its wick thicker, and its flame nearer the wax,
than the latter. The former was brittle, the latter not.
It plainly appears from thefe fads, that the unbleached
wax was more inflammable than the bleached ; and that
the latter had loft fo much of an inflammable fubftance,
as it had loft in weight; and confequently the fubftance
loft in bleaching of wax is the oily part.
“ As I had not an opportunity of repeating the former
experiment, I do not look on it as entirely conclufive ;
for it is poflibie that fome of the duft, flying about in the
air, might have mixed with the bleached wax, and fo
have rendered it ieis inflammable. Nor do I think the
analogical reafoning from wax to linen without objec¬
tions. Let us try then if we cannot procure the fubftance
extraded from the cloth, ftiow it to the eye, and exa¬
mine its different properties. The proper place to find
it, is in a lye already ufed, and fully impregnated with
thefe colouring particles.
“ I got in the bleachfield fome lye, which had been
ufed all that day for boiling coarfe linen, which was to¬
lerably white, and had been twice boiled before. There
could be no dreffing remaining in thefe webs. No foap
had ever touched that parcel; nor do they mix foap with
the lye ufed for coarfe cloth. Some of this impregnated
lye was evaporated, and left a dark-coloured matter be¬
hind. This fubftance felt oily betwixt the fingers, but
would not lather in water as foap does. It deflagrated
with nitre in fufion, and afforded a tindhire to fpirit of
wine. By this experiment the falts feem to have an oily
inflammable fubftance joined with them.
“ Could we feparate this colouring fubftance from
thefe falts, and exhibit it by itfelf, fo that it might be¬
come the objedt of experiment, the queftion would be
foon decided. Here chymiftry lends us its afliftance.
Whatever has a ftronger affinity or attradion to the falts
Von. I. No. 24. 3
565
with which it is joined, than this fubftance has, muft fet it at
liberty, and make it vifible. Acids attrad alkaline fait from
all other bodies; and therefore will ferve our purpofe.
“ Into a quantity of the impregnated lye mentioned in
the former experiment, I poured in oil of vitriol. Some
bubbles of air arofe, an intelline motion was to be per¬
ceived, and the liquor changed its colour from a dark
to a turbid white. It curdled like a folution of foap,
and a fcum foon gathered on the furface, about half an
inch in thicknefs, the deepnefs of the liquor not being
above fix inches. What was below was now pretty clear.
A great deal of the fame matter lay in the bottom; and
I obferved, that the fubftance on the furface was preci¬
pitated, and ftiowed itfelf heavier than water, v/hen the
particles of air, attached to it in great plenty, were dif-
pelled by heat.' This fubftance was in colour darker than
the cloth which had been boiled in it.
“ I procured a confiderable quantity of it by flam¬
ming it off. When I tried to mix it with water, it al¬
ways fell to the bottom. When dried by the air, it di-
minilhed very much in its fize, and turned as black as a
coal. In this ftate it deflagrated ftrongly with nitre in
fufion ; gave a ftrong tincture to fpirit of wine; and when
put on a red-hot iron, burnt very flowly, as if it con¬
tained a heavy ponderous oil; and left fome earth behind.
“ From the inflammability of this fubftance, its re-
jedting of water, and dilfolving in fpirit of wine, we dif-
cover its oleaginous nature; but from its great fpecific
gravity we fee that it differs very much from the ex-
preffed or cellular oil of vegetables; and yet more from
their mucilage. That it diflolves in fpirit of wine, is not
a certain argument of its differing from expreffed oils;
becaufe thele, when joined to alkaline falts, and reco¬
vered again by acids, become foluble in fpirit of wine.
The quantity of earthy powder left behind after burning,
fliows that it contains many of the folid particles of the
flax. The fubftance extracted from cloth by alkaline
lyes appears then to be a compofition of a heavy oil, and
the folid earthy particles of the flax.
“ In what manner thefe falts adt fo as to diflblve the
hils, and detach the folid particles, is uncertain; but we
fee evidently how much cloth muft be weakened by an
improper ufe of them, as we find the folid particles them-
felves are feparated.”
It is neceffary that cloth fhould be dry before bucking,
that the falts may enter into the body of the cloth along
with the water ; for they will not enter in fuch quantity,
if it be wet; and by adting too powerfully on the ex¬
ternal threads, may endanger them.
The degree of heat is a very material circumftance in
this operation. As the adfion of the falts is always in
proportion to the heat, it would appear more proper to
begin with a boiling heat, by which a great deal of time
and labour might be faved. The reafon why this method
is not followed, appears to be this. If any vegetable or
vegetable fubftance is to be foftened, and to have its juices
extradfed, it is found more proper to give it gentle de¬
grees of heat at firft, and to advance gradually, than to
plunge it all at once in boiling water. This Lift degree
of heat is fo ftrong, that when applied at once to a ve¬
getable, it hardens, inftead of foftening its texture. Dried
f 7 D vegetables
$66 B L E A C
vegetables are immediately put into boiling water by
cooks, that thefe fubftances may preferve their green co¬
lour, which is only to be done by hindering them from
turning too foft. Boiling water has the fame effett on
animal fubflances; for if fait beef is put into it, the wa¬
ter is kept from getting at the falts, from the outfide of
the beef being hardened.
But when we confider, how much of an oily fubftance
there is in the cloth, efpecially at firft, which will for
fome time keep off the water, and how the twilling of
the threads, and ckfenefs of the texture, hinders the
water from penetrating, we /hall find, that if boiling wa¬
ter were put on it at once, the cloth might be liable, in
feveral parts, to a dry heat, which would be much worfe
than a wet one. That the lyes have not accefs to all
parts of the cloth, at firft, appears plainly from this,
that when it has lain, after the firft bucking, till all the
lyes are walhed out, it is as black, in fome parts, as
when it was fteeped. This mull be owing to the dif-
eharge of the colouring particles from thofe places to
which the lye has accefs, and to their remaining where
it has not. It would feem advifeable, then, in the firft
bucking or two, when the cloth is foul, to ufe the lye
confiderably below the boiling point; that by this foak-
ing or maceration, the foulnefs may be entirely difcharg-
ed, and the cloth quite opened for the fpeedy reception
©f the boiling lye in the buckings which follow.
The lyes fnould likewife be weakeft in the firft buck¬
ings, becaufe then they adt only on the more external
parts ; whereas, when the cloth is more opened, and
the field of adtion is increafed, the adtive powers ought
to be fo too. For this reafon they are at the ftrongeft
after fome fourings.
The only thing that now remains to be confidered, is,
the management of the coarfe cloth, where boiling is fub-
ilituted in place of bucking. This fpecies of linen cannot
afford the time and labour neceffary for the latter ope¬
ration ; and therefore they muft undergo a ftiorter, and
more adtive method. As the heat continues longer at
the degree of boiling, the lyes ufed to the coarfe cloth
mu ft be weaker than thofe ufed to the fine. There is
not fo much danger from heat in the coarfe as in the fine
cloth, becaufe the former is of a more open texture, and
will allow the lye to penetrate more fpeedily. In the
clofer kinds, however, the firft application of the falts
ihould be made without a.boiling heat.
ALTERNATE WATERING and DRYING.
After, the cloth.has been bucked, it is carried out to
the field, and frequently watered for the firft fix hours.
For if during that time, when it is ftrongly impregnated
with falts, it is allowed to dry, the falts approaching
clofer together, and, affifted by a greater degree of heat,
increafing always in proportion to the drinefs of the cloth,
adl with greater force, and deftroy its very texture. Af¬
ter this time, dry fpots are allowed to appear before
it gets any water. In this ftate it profits moft,. as the
latter part of the evaporation comes from the more in¬
ternal parts of the cloth, and will carry away moft from
thofe parts. The bleaching of the wax* in a preceding
KING.
experiment, helps to confirm this; for it feemed to whiten
moft when the laft particles of water were going off.
This continual evaporation from the furface of the
cloth Ihows, that the defign of the operation is to carry
off fcmewhat remaining after the former procefs of buck¬
ing. This appears likewife from a fad known to all
bleachers, that the upper fide of cloth, where the eva¬
poration is ftrongeft, attains to a greater degree of white-
nefs than the under fide. But it is placed beyond all
doubt by experiment, which (hews, that cloth turns much
lighter by being expofed to the influence of the fun, air,
and winds, even though the falts have been walked out
of it.
What, then, is this fubftance ? As we have difcovered
in the former fedion, that the whitening, in the opera¬
tion of bucking, depends on the extrading or loofening.
the heavy oil, and folid particles of the flax; it appears
highly probable, that the effeds of watering, and expo-
fition to the fun, air, and winds, are produced by the
evaporation of the fame fubftance, joined to the falts,
with which compofite body the cloth is impregnated when
expofed on the field. That thele falts are in a great
meafure carried off or deftroyed, appears from the cloth’s
being allowed to dry without any danger, after the eva¬
poration has gone on for fome time. “ If we can Ihow,
fays Dr Home, that oils and falts, when joined toge¬
ther, are capable of being exhaled, in this manner, by
the heat of the atmofphere, we lhall reduce this queftion
to a very great degree of certainty.
“ Sept. xo. I expofed, in a fouth-weft window, half
an oz. of Caftile foap, fliced down, and watered. Sept,
14. when well dried, it weighed but 3 dr. 6 gr. Sept.
22. it weighed 2 dr. 2 gr. Sept. 24. it weighed 1 dr,
50 gr. It then feemed a very little whiter; but was much
more mucilaginous in its tafte, and had no degree of falt-
nefs, which it had before.
“ It appears from this experiment, that foap is fo vo¬
latile, when watered, and expofed to air not very warm,
that it lofes above the half its weightin' fourteen days.
The fame muft happen to the faponaceous fubftance,
formed from the conjunflion of the alkaline Llts, heavy
oil, and earthy particles of the flax. The whole defign,
then, of this operation, which, by way of pre-eminence,,
gets the name of bleaching, is to carry off, by the eva¬
poration of water, whatever has been loofened by the
former procefs of bucking.
“ Againft this dodtrine there may be brought two ob-
jedlions, feemingly of great weight. It is a general opi¬
nion amongft bleachers, that linen whitens quicker in
March and April, than in any other months: But as the
evaporation cannot be fo great at that time, as when,the
fun has a greater heat; hence the whitening of cloth is-
not in proportion to the degree of evaporation; and
therefore the former cannbt be owing to the latter. This
objedtion vanilhes, when we confider, that the cloth
which comes firft into the bleachfield, in the fpring, is
clofely attended, having no other to interfere with it for
fbme time ; and, as it is the whiteft, gets, in the after buck¬
ings, the firft of the lye; while the fecond parcel is ofterr
bucked with what has been ufed to the firft. Were the
fadl true, on which the objedtion is founded, this would
B L E A C
be a fufficient anfwer to the objection. But it appears
not to be true, from an obfervation of Mr John Cbriftie,
That cloth laid down in the beginning of June, and fi»
nifhed in September, takes generally lefs work, and un¬
dergoes fewer operations, than what is laid down in March,
and finilhed in June.
“ The other objection is, That cloth dries much farter
in windy weather than in calm funlhine; but it does not
bleach fo fart. This would feem to Ihow, that the fun
has iome particular influence independent on evaporation.
In anfwer to this objection, let it be confidered, that it
is not the evaporation from the furface, but from the
more internal parts that is of benefit to the cloth. Now,
this latter evaporation rnuft be much ftronger in fuhrtiine
than in windy weather, on account of the heat of the
fun, which will make the cloth more open; while the
coldnefs of windy weather muft fliut it up, fo that the
evaporation will all be from the furface. Clear funrtiine,
with a very little wind, is obferyed to be the beft wea¬
ther for bleaching; a convincing proof that this reafon-
ing is juft.
“ It would feem to follow as a corollary from this rea-
foning, that the number of waterings ftiould in general
be in proportion to the rtrength of the lye; for the
ftronger the lye is, the more there is to be evaporated;
and the greater the danger, in cafe the cloth flrould be
allowed to dry. But there is an exception to this gene¬
ral rule, arifing from the confideration of another cir-
cumftance. It is obferved, that cloth, when brown, dries
fooner than when it becomes whiter, arifing from the
clofenefs and oilinefs which it then has, not allowing the
water a free paflage. Perhaps that colour may retain a
greater degree of heat, and in that way aflift a very little.
Cloth therefore, after the firft buckings, muft be more
carefully watered than after the laft.
“ It follows likewife from this reafontng, that the foil
of the bleachfield ftiould be gravelly or fandy, that the
water may pafs quickly through it, and that the heat may
be increafed by the refledtion of the foil?: for the fuccefs
of this operation depends on the mutual adtion of heat
and evaporation. It is likewife neceflary that the water
fhould be light, foft, and free from mud or dirt, which,
not being able to rife along with the water, muft remain
behind. When there is much of this, it becomes necef-
fary to rinfe the cloth in water, and then give it a mill¬
ing, to take out the dirt; elfe it would be fixed in the
cloth by the following bucking, as it is not foluble by
the lye.
“ This operation has more attributed' to it by bleach¬
ers than it can juftly claim. The cloth appears, even to
the eye, to whiten under thefe alternate waterings and
dryings; and thefe naturally get the honour of it, when
it more properly belongs to the former operation. Here
lies the fallaty. Alkaline falts give a very high colour
to the- decodtions, or infufion of vegetables. This is
probably owing to the folution of the oleaginous colour¬
ing particles of the plant; which particles, being opened
and feparated by the falts, occupy a greater fpace, and
give a deep colour to the liquor. The cloth participates
of the liquor and colour. Hence bleachers always judge
of the goodnefs of the bucking by the deepnefs of its
KING. 567
colour. The rule, in general, is good. I obferve, that
in thofe buckings which continue from the Saturday night
to the Monday morning, the cloth has always the deepeft
colour. When that cloth has been expofed fome hours
to the influence of the air, thefe colouring particles,
which are but loofely attached to it, are evaporated, and
the linen appears of a brighter colour. This operation
does no more than complete what the former had almoft
finilhed. If its own merit were thoroughly known, there
would be no occafion to attribute that of another opera¬
tion to it. Thread, and open cloths, fuch as diaper,
may be reduced to a great degree of whitenefs, after one
bucking, by it alone. No cloth, as would appear, can
attain to a bright whitenefs without it.
“ Since the only advantage of watering is the remo¬
val of the falts, and what they have difiblved, might we
not effe&uate this by fome cheaper, and more certain
method ? For it occupies many hands ; and muft depend
altogether on the uncertainty of the weather; fo that, in
the beginning of the feafon, the bleacher is often obliged
to repeat his buckings without bleaching. We might
take out the alkaline falts by acids; but then the other
fubftance would be left alone in the cloth, nor would any
waftiing be able to remove it. Mill-waftiing appears a
more probable method of taking out both falts and oils ;
and it would feem that this might, in a great meafufe,
fupply the place of watering; but upon trial it does not
fucceed. Two parcels of linen were managed equally in
every other refpe<5t, except in this, that one was water¬
ed, and expofed to the influence of the air, and the o-
ther was only mill-walked. This method was followed
until they were fit for fouring. The cloth which had
been miil-walhed, had a remarkable green colour, and
did not recover the bright colour of the pieces managed
in the common way, until it had been treated like them
for a fortnight. The green colour was certainly owing
to a precipitation of the fulphureous particles, with which
the lye is impregnated, upon the furface of the cloth ;
owing to the falts being walked oflF more fpeedily than
the fulphur, to which they are united in the lye. The
attachment betwixt thefe two bodies we know is very
loofe, and the feparation eafily made. Evaporation then
alone is fufficient to carry off thefe fulphureous par¬
ticles.”
SOURING.
' It is well known to all chymifts, that alkaline falts
are convertible, by different methods, into abforbent
earths. Frequent folution in water, and evaporation of
it again, is one of thefe. This tranfmutation then of
thefe falts, which are not volatilifed or walked away,
muft be continually going on in the cloth under thefe al¬
ternate waterings and dryings of the former procefs ; not
much indeed after the firft two or three buckings ; be-
caufe the falts, not having entered deep into the cloth,
are eafily walked olf, or evaporated. But when they
penetrate into the very compofition of the laft and mi-
nuteft fibres,. of which the firft velfels are made, they
find greater difficulty of efcaping again, and muft be more
fubjeft to this tranfmutation, But if we confider the
bleaching ,
568 B, L E A C
bleaching afhes as a compofition of lime and alkaline fahs,
we muft difcover a frelh fund for the depofition of this
abforbent earth. The common cauftic, a compofition of
this very kind, foon converts itfelf, if expofed to the o-
pen air, into a harmlefs earthy powder.
.'Frequent buckings and bleachings load the cloth with
th’s fubflance. It becomes then neceflary to take it out.
No wafhing can do that, becaufe earth is not foluble in
water. Nothing but acids can remove it. Thefe are
attracted by the abforbent earth, join themfelves to it,
and compote a kind of neutral imperfect fait, which is
foluble in water ; and therefore ealily wafhed out of the
cloth. The acid liquors commonly ufed are butter-miLc,
which is reckoned the beft, four milk, infuGons of bran,
rye-meal, <bc. kept for fome days till they four. Sour
whey is thought to give the cloth a yellow colour.
The linen ought to be dried before it is put in the
four, that the acid particles may penetrate, along with
the watery, through the whole. A few hours after it
has been there, air-bubles arife, the liquor fwells, and a
thick fcum is formed ; manifeft figns of a fermentation.
The following experiment, fays Dr Home, (hews the
degree of heat which attends it.
“ May 2 5. I put a thermometer of Fahrenheit’s in¬
to fome butter-milk, of which the bleachers were com-
poGng their fours, and which flood in a vat adjoining to
another, where the milk was the fame, and the fouring
procefs had been going on for two days. After the
thermometer had been twenty minutes in the butter¬
milk, the mercury flood at 64 degrees. In the fouring
vat it rofe to 68 degrees. An increafe of 4 degrees
fhows a pretty brifk inteflirre motion
“ To what are all thefe efFe&s owing ? To the ace¬
tous fermentation going on in thofe vegetable liquors,
whofe acids, extricating themfdves, produce heat, in-
tefline motion, and air-bubbles. As the change is flow,
the procefs takes Gve or fix days before it is Gnifhed.
During this time the acid particles are continually uni¬
ting themfelves to the abforbent earth in the cloth. That
this fermentation goes on in the I quor alone, appears
from this conGderation, that the fame.effe&s, viz. air-
bubbles, and fcum, are to be feen in the butter-milk a-
lone. The only effeft then it has is, by the fmall de¬
gree of heat, and intefline motion, which attend it, to
affifl the junction of the acid and abforbent particles.
We fhall prefently fee, that this procefs may be carried
on, to as great advantage, without any fermentation;
and therefore it appears not abfolutely neceffary.
“ When thefe abforbent particles are fully faturated,
the remaining acids may unite with, and have fome fmall
effedt in extradling the colouring particles. This appears
from the two following experiments.
“ Sept. 20. A piece of cloth which hacj been fteep-
ed, weighing qi-l gr. was put into a half-pound of but¬
ter-milk, whigged, and well foured, by a mixture of
water, and by boiling. Sept. 24. When taken out, and
walhed in water, it appeared a very little whiter. The
mineral acids, as will appear afterwards, whiten cloth,
even though they are very much diluted.
“ Jult before the acetous fermentation is Gnilhed, the
cloth ihould be taken out; otherwife the fcum will fall
KING.
down, and lodge in the cloth, and the putrefadlion which
then begins will weaken it. This appears from the fol¬
lowing experiment.
“ Sep. 16. A piece of cloth, weighing 42. gr. was
laid in butter-milk unwhigged. Novem. 15. The milk
had a putriGed fmell. The cloth was a little whiter,
but very tender ; and weighed, when well walked in
warm water and dried, 40 gr.”
All the fours made of bran, rye-meal, ire. ought to
be prepared before ufe ; for by this means fo much time
will be faved. BeGdes, when the water is poured upon
the cloth, and bran, as is done in the management of
coarfe cloth, the linen is not in a better Gtuation than if
it had been taken up wet from the Geld; and by this
means the acid particles cannot penetrate fo deep. A-
gain, this method of mixing the bran with the cloth,
may be attended with yet worfe confequences. All ve¬
getable fubltances, when much prelfed, fall into the putref-
cent, and not the acetous fermentation. This often hap¬
pens to the bran prelfed betwixt the different layers
on the linen, which muft weaken the cloth. Hence,
all fours Ihould be prepared before the cloth is lleeped in
them; and none of the bran or meal Ihould be mixed
with the cloth.
The fours are ufed ftrongeft at Gift, and gradually
weakened till the cloth has attained to its whitenefs. In
the Grft fourings, there is more of the earthy matter in
the cloth, from the many buckings it has undergone,
than what there can be afterwards. As the quantity of
this matter decreafes, fo fhould the ftrength of the
four. There is not, however, the leaft danger, at any
time, from too ftrong a four.
What is moft wanted in this operation is a more ex¬
peditious and cheaper method of obtaining the fame end.
As it takes Gve or Gx days, it retards the whitening of
the cloth conftderably; and as bleachers are obliged to
fend for milk to a great diftance, it becomes very dear.
This iaft conGderation makes them keep it fo long, that,
when ufed, it can have no good effedit; perhaps it may
have a bad one.
There is one confideration that may lead us to Ihorten
the time. It is obferved, that the fouring procefs is
fooner Gnilhed in warm than in cold weather. Heat
quickens the fermentation, by aiding the inteftine mo¬
tion. The vats therefore Ihould not be buried in the
ground, as they always are, which muft keep them cold;
there ftiould rather be pipes along the walls of the room,
to give it that degree of heat, which, on trial, may be
found to anfwer beft. There are few days in fummer fo
hot as is neceffary, and the beginning and end of the
feafon is by much too cold. That this is no ideal
fcheme, the following fadt is a fufficient proof. There are
two vats in Salton bleachGeld, adjoining to a partition-
wall, at the back of which there is a kitchen Gre. In
thefe vats the fouring procefs is Gnilhed in three days,
whereas it lafts Gve or Gx days in the others placed round
the fame room.
This improvement, though it Ihortens the time of
fouring a very little, yet is no remedy again ft the fcar-
city and dearnefs of milk fours. Such a liquor as would
ferve our purpofe, mull be found either among the vege¬
table
B L E A C
table acids, which have no further fermentation to under¬
go, or among the mineral acids. The former are a
large clafs, and contain within themfelves many different
fpecies ; fuch as the acid juice of feveral plants, vinegars
made of fermented liquors, and acid falts, called tartars.
But there is one objeflion againft thefe vegetable acids :
They all contain, along with the acid, a great quantity
of oily particles, which would not fail to difcolour the
cloth. Befides, the demand of the bleachfields would
r'aife their price too high.
The mineral acids have neither of thefe objeflions.
They are exceedingly cheap, and contain no oil. “ I
will freely own, fays Dr Home, that at fir ft I had no
great opinion of fuccefs from the mineral, from two rea-
fons ; their want of all fermentation, which I then look¬
ed on as neceffary ; and their extreme corrofivenefs.
But the experience of two different fummers, in two
different bleachfields, has convinced me, that they will
anfwer all the purpofes of the milk and bran fours; nay,
in feveral refpe&s, be much preferable to them. I have
feen many pieces of fine cloth, which had no other fours
but thofe of vitriol, and were as white and ftrong as thofe
bleached in the common way. I have cut feveral webs
through the middle, and bleached one half with milk,
and the other with vitriol; gave both the fame number
of operations, and the latter were as white and ftrong as
the former.”
The method in which it has been hitherto ufed is this.
The proportion of the oil of vitriol to the water, with
which it is diluted, is half an ounce, or at molt three
quarters, to a gallon of water. As the milk-fours are
diminifhed in flrength, fo ought the vitriol-fours. The
whole quantity of the oil of vitriol to be ufed, may be
firft mixed with a fmall quantity of water, then added to
the whole quantity of water, and well mixed together.
The water fhould be milk-warm ; by which means the
acid particles will penetrate further, and operate fooner.
The cloth fhould then be put dry into the liquor.
It is obferved, that this four performs its talk much
fooner than thofe of milk and bran; fo that Mr John
Chryflie, in making the trial, ufed to lay the milk-fours
twenty-four hours before the vitriol. Five hours will
do as much with this four, as five days with the common
fort. But the cloth can receive no harm in allowing it
to remain for feme days in the four ; but rather, on the
contrary, an advantage. The cloth is then taken out,
well rinfed, and mill-wafhed in the ordinary way.
The liquor, while the cloth lies in this four, is lefs
acid the fecond day than the firfl, lefs the third than the
fecond, and fo diminifhes by degrees. At firfl it is clear,
but oy degrees a mucilaginous fubflance is obferved to
float in it, when put into a glafs. This foulnefs increa-
fes every day. This fubllance, extrafled by the acid, is
the fame with what is extraded by the alkaline falts,
and blunts the acidity of the former, as it does the alka-
lefcency of the latter. Hence the liquor lofes by de¬
grees its acidity. But as the acid falts do not unite fo
equally with oily fubflances as the alkaline do, the liquor
is not fo uniformly tinged in the former as in the latter
cafe, and the mucous fubflance p re tents itfelf floating
in it.
Vol. I. No. 24, 3
H I N G. 569
It is obferved, that, in the firfl fouring, which is the
flrongefl, the liquor, which was a pretty flrong acid be¬
fore the cloth was put in, immediately afterwards be¬
comes quite vapid; a proof how very foon it performs
its tafk. But in the following operations, as the linen
advances in whitenefs, the acidity continues much long¬
er ; fo that in the lad operations the liquor lofes very
little of its acidity. This happens although the firft
buckings, after the firft fourings, are increafed in flrength,
while the fours are diminifhed. There are two caufes to
which this is owing. The texture of the cloth is now
fo opened, that although the lyes are flrong, the alka¬
line falts and abforbent earth are eafily wafhed out; and
the oily particles are, in a great meafure, removed which
help to blunt the acidity of the liquor.
Two objections are made againft the ufe of vitriol-
fours. One is, that the procefs of fouring with milk is
performed by a fermentation; and, as there is no fer¬
mentation in the vitriol-fours, they cannot ferve the pur-
pofe fo well: The other, that they may hurt the texture
of the cloth. The anfwer to the former objection is very
fhort; that the vitriol-fours operate fuccefsfully withouc
a fermentation, as experience fhews ; and therefore in
them a fermentation is not neceffary.
As to the latter objection, that oil of vitriol, being a
very corrofive body, may hurt the cloth ; that will va-
nifh likewife, when it is confidered how much the vitriol
is diluted with water, that the liquor is not ftronger than
vinegar, and that it may be fafely taken into the human
body.
That it may be ufed with fafety, mucK flronger than
what is neceffary in the bleachfield, appears from the
following experiment with regard to the damping of li¬
nen. After the linen is boiled in a lye of afhes, it is
bleached for fome time. After this, in order to make it
receive the colour, it is deeped in a four of water and
oil of vitriol, about fifteen times dronger than that made
ufe of in the bleachfield; for, to too gallons of-water
are added two and a half of oil of vitriol. Into this
quantity of liquor, made fo warm as the hand can juft
be held in it, is put feven pieces of 28 yards each. The
linen remains in it about two hours, and comes out re¬
markably whiter. The fine cloth often undergoes this
operation twice. Nor is there any danger if the oil of
vitriol is well mixed with the water. But if the two are
not well mixed together, and the oil of vitriol remains
in fome parts undiluted, the cloth is corroded into boles.
Let us now take a view of the advantages which the
vitriol-fours mud have over the milk. The latter is full
of oily particles, lome of which mud be left in the cloth :
But the cafe is worfe when the feum is allowed to pre¬
cipitate upon the cloth. The former is liable to neither
of thefe objections.
The common fours haften very fad to corruption ; and
if, from want of proper care, they ever arrive at that date,
mud damage the cloth very much. As the'milk is kept
very long, it is often corrupted before it is ufed; and,
without aCting as a four, has all the bad effeCts of putre¬
faction. The vitriol-fours are not fubjeCt to putrefac-
The milk takes five days to perform its talk, but the
f 7 E . vitriol-
570 B L E A <
vitriol-fours do it in as many hours; nay, perhaps as
many minutes. Their jundtion with the abfbrbent parti¬
cles in the cloth mult be immediate, whenever thefe acid
particles enter with the water. An unanfwerable proof
that the fadt is fo, arifes from the circumftances which
happen when the cloth is firft fteeped in the vitriol-four;
the cloth has no fooner imbibed the acid liquor than it
lofes all acidity, and becomes immediately vapid. This
effedt of vitriol fours mufl: be of great advantage in the
bl achfield, as the bleachers are at prefent hindered from
enjoying the feafon by the tedioufnefs of the fouring
procefs. The whole round of operations takes feven
days; to anfwer which they mull have feven parcels,
which are often mixing together, and caufing miftakes.
As three days, at moft, will be fufficient for all the ope-
vations when vitriol-fours are ufed, there will be no more
than three parcels. The cloth will be kept a fhorter
time in the bleachfield, and arrive fooner at market.
The milk-fours are very dear, and often difficult to be
got; but the vitriol are cheap, may be eafily procured,
and at any time.
There is yet another advantage in the ufe of vitriol,
and that is its power of whitening cloth. Even in this
diluted date, its whitening power is very confiderable.
We have already feen, that it removes the fame colour¬
ing particles, which the alkaline lyes do. What of it
then remains, after the alkaline and abforbent particles
are neutralized in the cloth, mull adt on thefe colouting
particles, and help to whiten the cloth. That this is
really the cafe, appears from the following fadt. Mr
Chrydie being obliged to chufe twenty of the whited
pieces out of a hundred, five of the twenty were taken
out of feven pieces which were bleached with vitriol.
From both experience and reafon, it appears, that it
would be for the advantage of our linen-manufaffure to
ufe vitriol in place of milk-fours.
Hand-rubbing with Soap and Warm Water, Rub¬
bing-boards, Starching, a/i^Bluing.
After the cloth comes from the fouring, it diould be
well walhed in the walhing-mill, to take off all the acid
particles which adhere to its furface. All acids decom-
pofe foap, by feparating the alkaline falts and oily parts
from one another. Were this to happen on the furface
of the cloth, the oil would remain ; nor would the wafti-
ing-mili afterwards be able to carry it off.
From the wafhing-mill the fine cloth is carried to be
rubbed by womens hands, with foap and water. As the
liquors, which are generally employed for fouring, are
impregnated with oily particles, many of thefe mud
lodge in the cloth, and remain, notwithdanding the pre¬
ceding milling. It is probable, that all the heavy oils
are not evaporated by bleaching. Hence it becomes ne-
ceffary to apply foap and warm water, which unite with,
diffolve, and carry them off. It is obferved, that if the
cloth, when it is pretty white, gets too much foap, the
following bleaching is apt to make it yellow; on that ac¬
count they often wring out the foap.
It is a matter worth inquiring into, whether hard or
£oft foap is bed for cloth. Mod bleachers agree, that
^ H I N G.
hard foap is apt to leave a yellownefs in the cloth. It is
faid, that the ufe-of hard foap is difcharged in Holland.
As there mud be a confiderable quantity of fea-falt in
this kind, which is not in the foft, and as this fait ap¬
pears prejudicial to cloth, the foft foap ought to be pre¬
ferred.
The management of the coarfe cloth is very different,
in this operation, from fine. Indead of being rubbed
with hands, which would be too expenfive, it is laid on
a table, run over with foap, and then put betwixt the
rubbing-boards, which have ridges and grooves from one
fide to another, like teeth. Thefe boards have fmall
ledges to keep in the foap and water, which faves the
cloth. They are moved by hands, or a water-uhed,
which is more equal and cheaper. The cloth is drawn,
by degrees, through the boards, by men who attend;
or, which is more equal and cheaper, the fame water¬
wheel moves two rollers, with ridge and groove, fo that
the former enters the latter, and, by a gentle motion
roond their own axis, pull the cloth gradually through
the boards.
This mill was invented in Ireland about thirty years
ago. The Irifti bleachers ufe it for their fine, as well as
coarfe cloath. Thefe rubbing-boards were difcharged,
fame years ago, in Ireland, by the Truftees for the ma-
nufadures of that country, convinced from long expe¬
rience of their bad effeds. But as proper care was not
taken to inftrud the bleachers by degrees in a fafier me¬
thod, they continued in the old, made a party, and kept
poffefiion of the rubbing-boards. There were confide¬
rable improvements made in them in this country; fuch
as the addition of the ledges, to keep the cloth moift;
and of the rollers, which pull the cloth more gradually
than mens hands. Thefe improvements were firft made
in Salton bleachfield.
The objedions againft thefe rubbing-boards, are un¬
anfwerable. By rubbing on fuch an unequal furface, the
folid fibrous part of the cloth is wore; by which means
it is much thinned, and in a great meafure weakened be¬
fore it comes to the market. As a proof of this, if the
water which comes from the cloth in the rubbing-boards
be examined, it will be found full of cottony fibrous
matter. Thefe boards give the cloth a cottony furface,
fo that it does not keep long clean. Again, they flatten
the threads, and take away all that roundnefs and firm-
nefs, which is the diftinguifhing property of cloth bleached
in the Dutch method.
For thefe reafons they muft be very prejudicial to fine
cloth, and fhould never be ufed in bleaching it. As
they feem to be, in feme meafure, neceffary to leffen the
expence of bleaching coarfe linen, they ought never to
be ufed above twice, or thrice at moft. They might be
rendered much more fafe, by lining their infides with
fome foft elaftic fubftance, that will not wear the cloth
fo much as the wooden teeth do. Mr Chryftie at P.rth
has lined his boards with ftiort hair for fome years paft,
and finds that it anfwers very well.
After the coarfe linen has undergone a rubbing, it
fhould be immediately milled for an hour, and warn*
water poured now and then on it to make it lather. This
milling has very good effecls; fox it cleans the cloth of
all
B L E A C
al! the dirt and filth which the rubbing-boards have
loofened, and which, at the next boiling, would difco-
lour the cloth. Befides, it is obferved, that it makes
the cloth lefs cottony, and more firm, than when whi¬
tened by rubbing alone.
The laft operation is that of ftarching and bluing. It
often happens, that the cloth, when expofed to the wea¬
ther to be dried after this operation, gets rain ; which
undoes all again, and forces the bleacher to a new ex¬
pence. To remedy this inconvenience, Mr Chryftie,
fome years ago, invented the dry-houfe, where the cloth
may be dried, after this operation, in any weather. This
invention meets with univerfal approbation.
A METHOD of BLEACHING safely with
LIME.
Dr Home has found by repeated trials, that alkaline
: falls added to lime, dimir.ilh its power of weakening and
corroding cloth; and that in proportion to the quantity
of thefe falls added to the lime. This compofition, as
it is not fo dangerous as |ime alone, fo it is not fo expe¬
ditious in whitening. When equal parts of each are
ufed, the whitening power is ftrong, and the weakening
power not very confiderable; fo that they might be ufed
with fafety to bleach cloth, in the proportion of one part
of lime to four of pure alkaline falls. This fully accounts
for an obfervation made by all bleachers, That the bleaching
falls, when mixed together, operate fafer and better than
when ufed feparately. For the corrofive power of the
Mufcovy, Marcoft, and Cafiiub alhes is corredted by the
pearl alhes. and the whitening quality of the latter is in-
creafed by that of the former.
There is not a more corroding fubdance, with regard
to animals, than alkaline falls and lime joined together,
efpecially when fufed in the fire. This is the compofrtion
of the common cauftic. But lime, and lime-water alone,
preferve animal fubftances in a found entire date. It ap¬
pears then furprifing, that falls and lime Ihould be found
fo little dedrudtive of cloth, when lime, or lime-water,
alone, dedroys it fo remarkably. But that this is afadt,,
is made evident by many experiments, and has been
pradtifed both with fuccefs and fafety, by a bleacher who
gives the following account of his method of bleaching
with lime.
“ Fird, fays he, I deep the cloth in warm water for
twenty-four hours; then clean it in a wafliing mill, of all
the drefling, or fowen,. as the vulgar term it. After¬
wards I buck the cloth with cow-dung and water,, and
bleach it with this for three days ; then clean it again,
and boil it with a lye made of Cadiub afhes. A pound
to each piece of 18 or 20 yards long is fufficient. This
I do twice, as no lime ought to be given to cloth before
it is a full third whitened; as it by no means advances
the whitening of the cloth, but, on the contrary, pro-
tradls it: For, indead of loofening the oil and dirt in
the cloth, when brown, it rather fixes them; jud as
when fine cloth is bucked with over-warm lyes in the
fkd buckings. Lime is by no means fit for difcharging
tire oil in the cloth, but for cleaning it of the dead part,
commonly called fir at. The cloth, being cleaned, is
K I NG. 571
laid upon a dreeper. It mud not be drier before buck¬
ing with lime, otherwife it will take in more than can
be got out again before the next application : For as I
have obferved already, that lime is only fit for difchar¬
ging the dead part, bucking thus wet make it red on the
outfide of the cloth. I take a lippy of the fined and
riched powdered lime that can be got, of the brighted
white colour, as poor lime does more hurt than good,
to thirty pieces of the above length; and make a cold
lye of it, by dirring and pouring water off the lime, un¬
til all be dilfolved, but the drofs, which is thrown away:
Then I add a little foap, which makes the lye have the
neared refemblance to milk that breaks in boiling, of any
thing I can think of: For this foap blunts the hotnefs
of the lime. Then I take the cloth, and dip it in the
lime-lye, and that moment out again, and lay it on a
dreeper until it be bucked ; then put it on the field,.
watering it carefully; for if allowed to dry, it is much
damaged. This is done always in the morning; as it
cannot be done at night, in regard of the hot quality of
the, lime, which foon heats the cloth, and tenders it. If
a hot funlhine follows, it has great effeft; for lime is
jud like all other materials for bleaching, that have more
or lefs effetd according as the weather is good or bad. I
take it up the fecond day after bucking, and give it a
little milling, or hand-bleaching, or bittling, commonly
cAltA knocking•, and lay it on the field again, watering,
it carefully as before. The effed is more vifible the fe¬
cond than the fird day. As all cloth when limed ihould
have a great deal of work, otherwife more than'half the
effed is lod; and not only that, but a great deal of la¬
bour and pains is requifite to take the lime out of the
cloth again; it hrud never be expofed on the Sabbath
day, but carefully kept wet always while ufed in this way. -
Thus bucking for three or four times at mod, is fuffi¬
cient for any cloth, except that made of flax pulled ei¬
ther over-green, or which grows in a droughty feafon,
or perhaps not fo well heckled as it Ihould be. This
fort occailons great trouble and expence to the bleacher.
But the mod eifedual and expeditious way I ever found
for this kind, was, after boiling, to take a little of the
warm lye, and mix a very fmall quantity of lime with it,
and draw the cloth through that as hot as poffible, and
put it on the field diredly, watering it carefully. This
will clean it.of the fprat furprifingly. Then I boil it with .
pearl affies; and give it the lad boil with foap.
“ There are innumerable midakes in the ufe of lime-
committed by the vulgar, who are ignorant of its quality
and e.ffeids. They know only this in general, that it is
a thing which whitens cloth cheap, and is eafy purchafed; .
therefore they will ufe it. Some of them begin whiten¬
ing of their cloth with it, which I have already obferved
to be wrong, and given reafons for it, and continue it
until the cloth is bleached; give it a boil or two at mod,
and then waffi it up while the grofs body of the lime is in
the fubdance of the cloth. This makes limed cloth ea-
fily diflinguiffiable from unlimed, as the former has a yeL
lowiffi colour, and is full of a powder. Befides, as lime
is of a very hot corroding nature, it mud by degrees
weaken the cloth. The bad effedls of this fubdance do
not end here. When the cloth is put on board, it con-
traSs..
572 B L E A C
-trafts a dampnefs, which not only makes it yellow, and
lofe any thing of colour it has, but direftly rots it. And
although it fhould efcape this, which it is poffible it may,
by a quick and fpeedy paflage ; yet whenever it is put
in any warehoufe, it will meet with moifture there, efpe-
cially if the winter-feafon Ihould come on before it is
difpofed or made ufe of. Thefe I take to be the prin-
B L E
BLEAK, the Englilh name of the filh called cyprinus.
See Cyprinus.
BLECHINGLY, a borough-town of Surry, about
twenty miles fouth of London; W. lofig. 20', and
N. lat. 51° 2o\
BLEGHNUM, in botany, a genus of the cryptogamia
filices. The feeds and parts of fru&ification of this
* fern lie in Onall lines under the plaits of the leaves.
The fpecies are two, viz. the occidentale, a native of
America; and the occidentale, a native of China.
BLEEDING, in furgery. See Surgery.
Bleeding at the nofe. See Hemorrhage, and
Medicine.
Bleeding is alfo ufed for the drawing out the fap of
plants, otherwife called tapping. See Tapping.
BLEKING, the molt fouth-eafterly province of Swe¬
den, having the Baltic on the fouth, Smaland on the
north, and the province of Schonen on the well.
BLEMISH, a term in hunting, when the hounds or
beagles finding where the chace has been, make a prof¬
fer to enter, but return.
BLEMYES, or Blemmyes, a fabulous people of E-
thiopia, faid to have had no heads ; their eyes, mouth,
eirc. being fituated in their breads.
BLENCH or Blanch. SccBlanch.
BLEND, or Blende, a mineral fubftance refembling
lead-ore, but containing very little of that metal.
Blend-water, called alfo morehough, a diftemper in¬
cident to black cattle," comes either from the blood,
from the yellows, or from the change of ground.
In order to cure it, take bole armoniac, and as much
charcoal dull as will fill an egg-(hell, a good quantity
of the inner bark of an oak, dried and pounded toge¬
ther to a powder, and give it to the bead in a quart of
new milk and a pint of earning.
BLENHEIM, a village of Swabia in Germany, fituated
on the weft fide of the Danube, three miles north-eaft
of Hdtkftet, and twenty-feven miles north-eaft of
Ulm; E. long. io° 25', N. lat. 48° 40'.
BLENNIUS, in ichthyology, a genus of fillies belong¬
ing to the order of jugulares; the charadlers of which
are thefe: The head Hants or declines to one fide;
there are fix rays in the membrane of the gills; the
body tapers toward the tail; the belly-fins have only
two blunt bones; and the tail-fin is diftindt. The fpe¬
cies are 13', viz. 1. The galeria, with a tranfverfe
membranous creft upon the head. It is found in the
European leas. 2. The crillatus, with a longitudinal
briftly creft betwixt the eyes. 3. The cornutus, with
afimple ray above the eyes, and a fingle back-fin. The
RING;
cipal reafons for fo much complaint in bleaching with this
material.”
The whole art and fafety in ufing the lime, according
to this method, depends on the jundtion of the alkaline
falts, during the bucking, to the particles of lime which
were on the furface of the cloth.
B L I
above two are natives of the Indies. 4. The ocella-
ris, with a furrow betwixt the eyes, and a large fpot
on the back-fin. 5. The gattorugine, with fmall pal-
mated fins about the eye-brows and neck. It is about
feven or eight inches long. Thefe two laft are found
in the European feas. 6. The fuperciliofus, with
fmall fins about the eye-brows, and a curved lateral
line. It is a native of India. 7. The phycis, with
a kind of crefted noftrils, a cirrus or beard on the un¬
der lip, and a double fin on the back. It has feven
rays in the gill-membrane; the anus is furrounded
with a black ring; and the tail is roundifh. 8. The
pholis has a fmooth head, a curve line upon the fides,
and the upper jaw is larger than the under one. The
two laft are found in the Mediterranean fea. 9. The
gunnellus has to black fpots on the back-fin. It is
found in the Atlantic Ocean. 10. The muftelaris has
three rays on the fore-part of the back-fin. It is a
native of India. 11. The viviparus has two tentacula
at the mouth. 12. The lumpenus has feveral dulky-
coloured areolas running acrofs its body. The two
laft are found in the European feas. 13. The rani-
nus, with fix divifions in the belly-fins. It is found in
the lakes of Sweden. It is remarkable, that when
this filh appears in the lake, all the other filhes retire;
and what is worfe, it is not fit for eating.
BLEYME, an inflammation ariling from bruifed blood
between a horfe’s foie and the bone of the foot, to¬
wards the heel. Of thefe there are three forts : The
fir ft being bred in fpoiled wrinkled feet, with narrow
heels, are ufually feated in the inward or weakeft quar¬
ter. In this cafe the hoof muft be pared, and the
matter let out; then let oil de merveille be poured
in, and the hoof be charged with a remolade of foot
and turpentine.
The fecond fort, befides the ufual fymptoms of the
firft, infedts the griftle, and muft be extirpated, as in
the cure of a quitter bone, giving the horfe, every day,
moiftened bran, with two ounces of liver of antimony,
to divert the courfe of the humours, and purify the
blood.
The third fort of bleymes, is occafioned by fmall
ftones and gravel between the Ihoe and the foie. In
this cafe the foot muft be pared, and the matter, if
any, let out: If there be no matter, then the bruifed
foie muft be taken out; but if there be matter, the
fore muft be drefled like the prick of a nail.
BLIGHT, in hulbandry, a difeafe incident to plants,
which affedts them varioully, the whole plant fome-
times perilbing by it, and fometimes only the leaves
and
B L I ( 573 ) R L ©
and blofibms, which will be fcorched and fhrivelled
up, the reft remaining green and flouriihing.
Some have fuppofed that blights are ufually produced
by an eafterly wind, which brings yaft quantities of
infe&s eggs along with it, from Fome diftant place,
that, being lodged upon the furface of the leaves and
flowers of fruit-trees, caufe them to ftuivel up and perilh.
To cure this diftemper, they advife the burning of
wet litter on the windward fide of the plants, that the
fmoke thereof may be carried to them by the wind,
which they fuppofe will ftifle and deftroy the infe&s,
and thereby cure the diftemper.
Others direcft the ufe of tobacco-duft, or to wafh
the trees with water wherein tobacco-ftalks have been
infufed for twelve hours; which they fay will deftroy
thofe infeds, and recover the plants.
Pepper-duft fcattered over the bloflbms of fruit-
trees, &c. has been recommended as very ufeful in
this cafe ; and there are fome that advife the pulling
off the leaves that are diftempered.
The true caufe of blights feems to be continued dry
eafterly winds for feveral days together, without the
intervention of Ihowers, or any morning dew, by which
the perfpiration in the tender bloflbm is flopped; and
if it fo happens, that there is a long continuance of the
fame weather, it equally affeds the tender leaves, where¬
by their colour is changed, and they wither and decay.
The beft remedy for this diftemper, is gently to
wafti and fprinkle over the tree, <&c. from time to time
with common water; and if the young ftioots feem to
be much infeded, let them be walked with a woollen
cloth, fo as to clear them, if polfible, from this gluti¬
nous matter, that their refpiration and perfpiration
may not be obftruded. This operation ought to be
performed early in the day, that the moifture may be
exhaled before the cold of the night comes on: Nor
Ihould it be done when the fun Ihines very hot.
Another caufe of blights in the fpring, is lharp hoary
frofts, which are often fuceeded by hot funfhjne in the
day time: This is the moft fudden and certain de-
ftroyer of the fruits that is known.
BLIGHTED corn. See Smut.
BLIND. See Blindness.
/Vv-Blind, or/ar-BLiND. A perfon who is very Ihort-
fighted is faid to be pur-blind.
7IL®«-Blind, denotes horfes that lofe their fight at cer¬
tain times of the moon.
Blind is alfoufed figuratively, for things without aper¬
tures ; Thus we fay, a blind wall, a blind alembic. See.
/Blind, among traders, a kind of falfe light which they
have in their warehoufes and {hops, to prevent too
great a light from diminilhing the luftre of their fluffs.
Blind, Blinde, or Blend. See Blend.
BLINDS, or Blindes, in the art of war, a fort of de¬
fence commonly made of oziers, or branches inter¬
woven, and laid acrofs between two rows of flakes,
about the height of a man, and four or five feet afun-
der, ufed particularly at the heads of trenches, when
they are extended in front towards the glacis; ferving
to flicker the workmen, and prevent their being over¬
looked by the enemy.
Vol. I. Numb. 24.
- BLINDNESS, a total privation of fight, arifing from
an obftru&ion of the functions of the organs of fight,
or from an intire deprivation of them. See Medi¬
cine, Of the gutta ferena, &c.
Blindness, in farriery. When a horfe becomes blind,
it may be thus difeerned : His walk or ftep is always
uncertain and unequal, fo that he does not fet down
his feet boldly when led in one’s hand : But if the
fame horfe be mounted by an expert horfeman, and if
he be a beaft of metal, then the fear of the fpurs will
make him go refolutely and freely; fo that his bhnd-
nels can hardly be perceived.
BLISTER, in medicine, a thin bladder containing a wa¬
tery humour, whether occafioned by burns, and the
like accidents, or by veficatories applied to different
parts of the body for that purpofe.
Cantharides, or Spanifh flies, applied in the form of
a plafter, are chiefly ufed with this intention. See
Cantharides.
ELITE, in botany. SccBlitum.
BLITH, a market-town in Nottinghamftiire, about 18
miles north-weft of Newark; in i° W. long, and 530
25' N. lat.
BLITUM, in botany, a genus of the monandria digynia
clafs. The calix confifts of three fegments ; there are
no petals ; and the feed, which is Angle, is inclofed in
the calix, which becomes a kind of berry. The fpe-
cies are two; viz. the capitatum, a native of Tyrol;
and the virgatum, a native of Tartary and Spain.
BLOATING, among phyficians. See Emph ysema.
BLOCK, a large mafs of wood, ferving to work or cut
things on.
Blocks, on fnip-board, is the ufual name of what-we
call pulleys at land. They are thick pieces of wood,
fome with three, four, or five ftiivers in them, through
which all the running ropes run. Blocks, whether Angle
or double, are diftinguiflied and called by the names of
the ropes they carry, and the ufes they ferve for.
Double blocks are ufed when there is occafion for
much ftrength, becaufe they will purchafe with more
eafe than fingle blocks, though much flower.
Block and block is a phrafe fignifying that two blocks
meet, in haling any tackle, or halliard, having fuch
blocks belonging to them.
Filh-block is hung in at a notch at the end of the
davit. It ferves to hale up the flooks of the anchor
at the ftiip’s prow.
Snatch-block is a great block with a ihiver in it, and
a notch cut through one of its cheeks, for the more
ready receiving of any rope; as by this notch the
middle-part of a rope may be reeved into the block,
without palling it endwife. It is commonly faftened
with a ftrap about the main-maft, clofe to the upper
deck, and is chiefly ufed for the fall of the winding
tackle, which is reeved into this block, and then
brought to the capftan.
Boock, among bowlers, denotes the fmall bowl ufed as
a mark.
Block, in falconry, the perch upon which they place
the hawk. It ought to be covered with cloth.
BLOCKADE, in the art of war, the blocking up a
t* 7 F place,
3
B L O ( 574 ) B L U
place, by polling troops at all the avenues leading to
it, to keep fupplies of men and provifions from getting
into it; and by thefe means propofing to ftarve it out,
without making any regular attacks.
To raife a blockade, is to force the troops that keep
the place blocked up, from their polls.
BLOIS, a beautiful city of Orleanois, about 30 miles
fouth-well of Orleans ; fituated on the north Ihore of
the river Loire, in one of the finell countries in France;
in i° so' E. long, and 47° 35' N. lat.
BLOMARY, or Bloomary, in metallurgy, the firll
forge through which iron paffes, after it is melted out
of the ore.
BLONIC, a town of Poland, about 20 miles well of
Warfaw; in 20° 30' E. long, and 52°. N. lat.
BLOOD, a well known fluid, which circulates through
the arteries, veins, <bc. of animal-bodies, and nou-
rilhes all their parts.
Blood is compofed of a thin watery liquor called
ferum, and a thick red part called crajfamenturn,
which, when viewed by the microfcope, appears to
confill of red globules of a certain determined magni¬
tude. Thefe globules are generally believed to be of
the fame magnitude in all animals that have red blood.
As-blood is originally derived from our aliment, it
mud confill of the fame principles, and confequently
abound with falts and oils. The falls of the blood
are partly of the fixed neutral kind, and partly fuch
as are rendered femi-volatile by the heat and motion to
which they are fubjedted: Both irritate the fenfible
nervous parts of animals ; for it is well-known that any
kind of fait applied to the eye gives great uneafinefs.
From thefe qualities of blood the late learned and cele¬
brated Dr Whytt concluded that it mud be well fitted
to communicate a gentle flimulus to thofe fenfible
nerves which terminate on the internal furface of the
auricles and ventricles of the heart; and confequently
that the coatradlion of the heart is principally owing to
this caufe. The diameter of a red globule is com¬
puted to be about part of an inch. See Circu¬
lation ; and for the arialyfis of blood, fee Che¬
mistry.
Authors are not agreed in regard to the quantity of
blood contained in the human body ; fome making it
only 10 pounds, whild others make it to be 20, 60,
or even 100 pounds : But then thefe lad comprehend
the juices of the lymphatic veffels under the term
blood. As to the quantity of current blood in a horfe,
the ingenious Dr Hales found it be, at a low compu¬
tation, 1105 cubic inches, or 42.2 pounds.
Spitting <j/\Bloon. SeeH^EMOPTOE and Medicine.
Ebullition of the BlooS, a difeafe in horfes, which pro¬
ceeds from want of exercife, and gives rife to outward
fwellings, frequently midaken for the farcin.
Blood running itch happens to a horfe by the blood’s
being over-heated by hard riding or other labour. As
the blood gets between the fldn and the flefh, it makes
■ a horfe rub and bite himfelf, and if negle&ed will'
turn to a grievous mange.
Blood cf Chrijl, the name of a military order indi-
tuted at Mantua in 1608. The number of knights
was redridled to twenty, befides the grand mafler
Their device was, Domins probafti ine, or, Nihil hoc,
trife, rcccpto.
Blood of Chrijl is alfo the name of a congregation of
nuns at Paris.
Dragon's 'Blood. See Dragon.
¥>i*ooT>-fnake. See Anguis.
BLOOD-y?fS«<?. See Haematites.
Blood-w/V, a muld or fine for ihedding of blood.
Blood-wc/V, in botany. See Sanguinaria.
Bloody flux. See Dysentery, and Medicine.
BLOOM, a mafs of iron after having undergone the firft
hammering, called blomary. See Blomary.
BLOSSOM denotes the flowers of plants, but more efpe-
cially of fruit-trees.
Blossom, or peach-coloured, in the menage, a
term applied to a horfe that has his hair white, but in¬
termixed all over with forrel and bay hairs. Such
horfes are fo infenfible and hard both in the mouth
and the flanks, that they are fcarce valued ; befides,
they are apt to turn blind.
BLOW, in law, any kind of droke, whether given with
the hand or a weapon. See Battery.
Ri.ovf pipe, or Blowing pipe, a hollow tube, ufed by
feveral artificers ; as enamellers, glafs-makers, <fac.
BLOWING, in a general fenfe, denotes an agitation
of the air, whether performed with a pair of bellows,
the mouth, a tube, or the like.
Blowing of glafs, one of the methods of forming the
divers kinds of works in the glafs-manufa<fhire. See
Glass.
It is performed by dipping the point of an iron
blowing-pipe in the melted glafs, and blowing through
it with the mouth, according to the circumllances of
the glafs to be blown.
Blowing of tin denotes the melting its ore, after being
firll burnt to dellroy the mundic.
Blowing, among gardeners, the fame with the blof-
foming of plants, or putting forth their flower-leaves.
BLUBBER denotes the fat of whales and other large
fea-animals, whereof is made train-oil.
BLUE, otherwife calledhzare, is one of the primitive
colours of the rays of light. See Optics.
Painters Blue is made different according to the dif¬
ferent kinds of painting. In limning, frefco, and
miniature, they ufe indifferently ultramarine, blue-
alhes, andfmalt: Thefe are their natural blues, ex¬
cepting the laft, which is partly natural, and partly
artificial.
In oil and miniature, they alfo ufe indigo prepared ;
as alfo a fidlitious ultramarine. See Ultramarine
and Indigo.
Enamellers, and painters upon glafs, have alfo blues :
proper to themfelves, each preparing them after their
own manner.
Turnfole Blue is ufed in painting, on wood, and is
made of the feed of the turnfole: The way of'pre¬
paring.it is, to boil four ounces of turnfole in a pint
and half of water in which lime has been flacked.
Flanders Blue is a colour bordering on green, and fel-
dora ufed but in landfkips.
B i U ( 575 ) BOA
T’o'write on paper crparchment nuith Blue ink. Grind
blue with honey, then temper it with glair of eggs, or
gum made of ilinglafs.
Blueing of metals is performed by heating th^m in the
fire, till they aflume a blue colour; particularly pyac-
tifed by gilders, who blue their metals before they
apply the gold and filver leaf.
To dye /kins Blue. Boil elder-berries or dwarf-elder,
then fmear and wafh the (kins therewith, and wring
them out; then boil the berries, as before, in a folu-
tion of alum-water, and wet the fldns in the fame man¬
ner once or twice ; dry them, and they will be very
blue.
Dyers Blue is one of their fimple or mother-colours,
ufed in the compofition of others. It is made; of
woad, indigo, and a paftel brought from Normandy.
Some dyers heighten their blue, by adding Brafil and
other woods.
A Blue for painting or flaining of glafs. Take fine
white fand twelve ounces, zaffer and minium of each
three ounces; reduce them to a. fine powder in a bpll-
metal mortar; then putting the power into a very
ftrong crucible, cover it and lute it well, and, being
dry, calcine it over a quick fire for an hour ; take out
the matter and pound it; then to fixteeq ounces of
this powder add fourteen pf nitre powder ; mix tfiem
well together, and put them into the crucible agajn ;
cover and lute it, and calcine for two hours on a
very (Irong fire,
Pruffsan Blue. This blue is next to ultramarine for
beauty, if it be ufed, in oil : This colour does not
grind well in water.
Blue bice is a colour of good brightnefs, next to Prufiian
blue ; and alfo a colour of a body, and will fiow pret¬
ty well in the pencil.
Saunders Blue is alfo of very,good ufe,. and may ferve
as a (hade to ultramarine or the blue bice, where,the
(hades are not required to be very deep, and is of it-
felf a pleafant blue, to be laid between the light and
lhades of fuch a flpwer a? is of a mazarine blue.
A fine Blue from Air Boyle. Take the blue leaves of
rue, and beat them a little in a, done mortar with a
wooden pedle; then put them in water, juice and all,
for fourteen days or more, wafiiing them every day
till they are rotten ; and at la/t beat them and. the u'a-
ter together, till they become a pulp, and let them
dry in the fun. This is a fine, blue for Ihading.
Indigo-B\.v?.. This makes the (Irpng&d (hade for blues
of any other, and is of a foft warm colour, when it has
. been well ground, and walked with gum-water,: by.
means of a done and a muller.
Lacmtis, or Lit mas Blue. This is a beautiful blue, .
and will run in a pen as free as ink. It is made of
laemus, and prepared thus : Take: an ounce of lacmus,
and boil it in a pint of fmall-beer wort, till the colour
is as drong as you would have it; then pour o(F the li¬
quor into a gallipot, and let it cool for ufe. This af¬
fords a beautiful colour, has extraordinary effects, and
is a holding colour; if it be touched with aqua-fortis,
it immediately changes to a fine crimfon, little inferior
to carmine. ,
Bl\y$.-Japan. Take gum-water, what quantity you
pleafe, and white lead a fufficient quantity ; grind them
well upon a porphyry; then take ifinglafs fize what
quantity you pleafe, of the fined and bed (malt a fuf¬
ficient quantity, mix them well; to which add, of
your white lead, before ground, fo much as may give
it a fufficient body ; mix all thefe together to the con¬
fidence of a paint.
Blue-^0///,?, in botany. See Cyan us.
BLUE-cd,/>, in ichthyology. See Salmo.
Blue-w««//i?, in heraldry, the title of a pourfuivant at
arms.
BLUFF-HEAD, among failors. A (hip is faid to be
bluff-headed, that has an upright dern.
BLUNDERBUSS, a (hort fire-arm with a wide bore,
capable of holding a number of bullets at once.
BLUSHING, a fuffufion, or rednefs of the cheeks, ex¬
cited by a fenfe of ffiame, on account of a confciouf-
nefs of fome failing or imperfe&ion.
B MI, in mufic, the third note in the modern feale. See
Scale and Music.
B MOLLARRE, or Molle, one of the notes of the
fi^le of mufic,, ufually called foft or flat, in oppofition
to b quapdro. See B Quandro.
BOA, in zoology, a genus of ferpents, belonging to the
order of amphibia. The characters of this genus are,
that the belly and tail are both furniffied with feuta.
The fpecies are ten, viz. i. The contortrix, has 150
feuta on the belly, and qq on the tail; the head is
broad, very convex, and has poifon-bags in the mouth,
but no fang, for which; reafon its bite is not reckoned
poifonous : The body is affi-coloured, interfperfed
with large duflty fpots; and the tail is about a third
of the length of the body. This ferpent is found in
Carolina. 2. The canina, has 203 feuta on the bel¬
ly, and 77 on the the tail; it is gteeniffi, and variega¬
ted with white belts. It is a native of America, and.
lodges in the hollow trunks of trees, and is about two
feet long. The bite of the canina is not poifonqus.
3. The hipnale, is of a dull yellow colour, and is
found in Alia. It has 179 feuta on the belly, and 120
on the tail.'—4. The con(lri<5(or, has 240 feuta on
the belly, and 60 on the tail. This is an immenfe a-
nimal; it often exceeds 36 feet in length ; the body
is very thick, of a duiky white colour, and its back
is interfperfed with 24 large pale irregular fpots; the
tail is of a darker colour ; and the Tides are beautifully
variegated with pale fpot,s. Befides, the whole body
is interfperfed with fmall brown fpots. The head is
covered with finall feales, and has no broad laminae
betwixt the eyes, but has a black belt behind the eyes.
It wants the large dog-fangs, and of courfe its bite is
not poifonous. The tongue is fleffiy, and very little
forked. Above the eyes, on each fide, the head rifes
high. The feales of this ferpent are all very fmall,
roundiffi, and fmooth. The tail does not exceed one
eighth of the whole length of the animal. The Indi¬
ans, who adore this mondrous animal, ufe the (kin for
cloaths, on. account of its fmoothnefs and beauty.
There are feveral of thefe (kins of the above dimen-
fions preferved, and to be feen in the different mu-
feums-i
BOA ( 576 ) BOA
feums of Europe, particularly in the library and bo¬
tanic garden of Upfal in Sweden, which has of late
been greatly enriched by count Grillinborg. The
flefh of this ferpent is eat by the Indians, and the ne¬
gro, y of Africa. Pifo, Margraave, and Kempfer give
the following account of its method of living and
catching its prey. It frequents caves and thick fo-
refts, where it conceals itfelf, and fuddenly darts out
upon travellers, wild beads, ire. When it chufes a
tree for its watching-place, it fupports itfelf by twill¬
ing its tail around the trunk or a branch, and darts
down upon fheep, goats, tigers, or any animal that
“comes within its reach. When it lays hold of ani¬
mals, efpecially any of the larger kinds, it twills it¬
felf feveral times round their body, and, by the vail
force of its circular mufcles, bruifes and breaks all
their bones. After the bone? are broke, it licks the
ikin of the animal all over, befmearing it with a glu¬
tinous kind of faliva. This operation is intended to
facilitate deglutition, and is a preparation for fwallow-
ing the whole animal. If it be a flag, or any horned
animal, it begins to fwallow the feet lirll, and gradu¬
ally fucks in the body, and lad of all the head. When
the horns happen to be large, this ferpent has been ob-
ferved to go about for a long time with the horns of a
dag dicking out from its ihouth. As the animal digeds,
the horns putrify and fall off. After this ferpent has
fwallowed a dag or a tyger, it is unable for fome days
to move ; the hunters, who are well acquainted with
this circumdance, always take this opportunity of de-
droying it. When irritated, it makes a loud hiding
noife. This ferpent is faid to cover itfelf over with
leaves in fuch places as dags or other animals frequent,
in order to conceal itfelf from their fight, and that it
may the more eafily lay hold of them. See Plate
LII. fig. 1.—y. The murina, has 254 feuta on the
belly, and 65 on the tail. The colour of it is a light
blue, with round fpots on the back. It is a native
of America, and its bite is not poifonous. 6. The
feytale, has 2 50 feuta on the belly, and 70 bn the
tail. The body is afh-coloured and bluifh, with round
black fpots on the back, and black lateral rings edged
with white. This ferpent is a native of America ; and,
like the condridtor, though not fo long, twids itfelf a-
bout fheep, goats, <&c. and fwallows them whole.
7. The cenchria, has 265-feuta on the belly, and 57
on the tail. It is of a yellow colour, with white eye¬
like fpots. It is a native‘of Surinam, and its bite is
not poifonous. 8. The opbrias, has 281 feuta on
the belly, and 64 on the tail ; the colour is nearly the
fame with that of the condriftor, but browner. The
place where this ferpent is to be found is not known ;
but its bite is not venomous. 9. The enydris, has
270 feuta on the belly, and 105 on the tail. The
colour is a dufky white, and the teeth of the lower
jaw are very long; but its bite is not poifonous.
It is a native of America. 10. The hortulana, has
290 feuta on the belly, and 128 on the tail. It is of a
pale colour, interfperfed with livid wedge-like fpots.
It is a native of America, and its bite is not poifon¬
ous.—For the nature and qualities of ferpents in ge¬
neral, their method of propagation, &c. fee Natu¬
ral History.
BOAR, a male fwine. See Sus.
Boar, in the menage, A horfe is faid to boar, when
he ftroots out his nofe as high as his ears, and toffes
his nofe in the wind.
BOARD, a long piece of timber, fawed thin for build
ing and feveral other purpofes. See Timber.
BarreJ-BoARVS, imported from Ireland, Afia, or A-
frica, pay only n-j^cL the hundred; but if import¬
ed from elfewhere, they pay 1 s. y-rrad. Clap-boards
pay 4s. 9T|§d. the hundred; but if imported from
Ireland, Afia, or Africa, only 2 s. lo-rggd. Pipe-
boards pay 5 s. 8Tg§d. the hundred; but if from Ire¬
land, Sc. only 3 s. lo-r^-gd. Scale-boards pay 8 s.
Sr-s^-d* the hundred rveight; and -Jd. more if import¬
ed in foreign bottoms.
Board, among feamen. To go aboard, fignifies to go
into the lhip. To flip by the board, is to flip down
by the fliip’s fide. Board and board, is when two
fhips come fo near as to touch one another, or
when they lie fide by fide. To make a board, is to
turn to windward; and the longer your boards are,
the more you work into the wind. To board it up, is
to beat it up, fometimes upon one tack, and fometimes
upon another. She makes a good board, that is, the
ftrip advances much at one tack. The weather-board,
is that fide of the fliip which is to windward.
Board is alfo ufed for an office under the government:
thus we fay, the board of trade and plantations, the
board of works, ordnance, foe.
BOARDING a Jhip, is entering an enemy’s ffiip in a
fight.
In boarding a ffiip, it is bed to bear up direftly
with him, and to caufe all your ports to leeward to
be beat open; then bring as many guns from your wea¬
ther fide as you have ports for; and laying the ene¬
my’s ffiip, on board, loof for loof, order your tops
and yards to be manned and furniffied with neceffa-
ries; and let all your fmall ffiot be in a readinefs;
then charge at once with both fmall and great, and at
the fame time enter your men under cover of the fmoke,
either on the bow of your enemy’s ffiip, or bring
your midffiip clofe up with her quarter, and fo enter
your men by the ffirouds: or if you would ufe your
ordnance, it is bell to board your enemy’s ffiip athwart
her hawfe; for in that cafe you may ufe moll of your
great guns, and ffie only thofe of her prow. Let fome
of your men endeavour to cut down the enemy’s yards
and tackle, whilft others clear the decks, and beat the
enemy from aloft. Then let the fcuttles and hatches
be broke open with all poffible fpeed to avoid trains,
and the danger of being blown up by barrels of pow¬
der placed under the decks.
BOAT, a fmall open veffel, commonly wrought by
rowing.
BOATSWAIN, a ffiip-officer, to whom is committed
the charge of all the tacklings, fails, and rigging,
ropes, cables, anchors, flags, pendants, foe. He is
alio to take care of the long-boat and its furniture,
and to fleer her either by himfelf or his mate.
He
BOD ( 577 ) BOG
He calls out the feveral gangs and companies aboard,
to the due execution of their watches, works, fpells,
<bc. He is likewife provoft-marlhal, who fees and pu¬
nches all offenders fentenced by the captain, or a court-
martial of the fleet.
Boatswain’s mats has the peculiar command of the
long boat, for the fetting forth of anchors, weighing
or fetching home an anchor, warping, towing, or
mooring; and is to give an account of his ftore.
BOB, a term ufed for the ball of a fliort pendulum.
BOBARTIA, in botany, a genus of the triandria digy-
nia clals. The calix is imbricated; and the corolla
confilts of a double-valved gluma. There is but one
fpecies, viz. the indica, a native of the Indies.
BOBBIN, a fmall piece of wood turned in the form of
a cylinder, with a little border jutting out at each end,
bored through to receive a fmall iron pivot. It ferves
to fpin with the fpinning-wheel, or to wind thread,
worfted, hair, cotton, filk, gold, and iilver.
BOBBING, amethodof filhing. See Fishing.
BOBBIO, a town of the Milanefe, in Italy, about
twenty-eight miles fouth-eaft of Pavia; E. long. io°,
N.lat. 440 35'.
BOCA, in ichthyology. See Sparus.
Boca-chica, the entrance into the harbour of Cartha-
gena, in South America, defended by feveral forts.
Boca del drago, aftrait between the ifland of Trini¬
dad and New Andalufia, a province of Terra Firma.
See Terra Firma.
BOCARDO, among logicians, the fifth mode of the
third figure of fyllogifms, in which the middle propo-
fition is an u-niverfal affirmative, and the firft and laft
particular negatives, thus:
Bo Some fickly perfons are not Undents ;
car Every fickly perfon is pale.;
d o Therefore fome perfons are pale that are not
ftudents.
BOCCONIA, in botany, a genus of the dodecandria
monogynia clafs. There is only one fpecies, viz. the
frutefcens, a native of America.
BOCE, in ichthyology. See Sparus.
BOCHARA, a large town of Ulbec Tartary, fituated
on the river Oxus, about fixty miles weft of Samar-
cand, in 65° E. long, and 40° N. lat.
BOCKHOLT, a town of Munfter, in Weftphalia, fi¬
tuated in 6° 20' E. long, and 510 40' N. lat.
BOCK-LAND, in the Saxons time, is what we now call
freehold lands, held by the better fort of perfons by
charter or deed in writing; by which name it was di-
ftinguiffied from folkland, or copy-hold land, holden
by the common people without writing.
BODKIN, a fmall inftrument made of fteel,’bone, ivo¬
ry, he. ufed for making holes.
The fmall grofs, or twelve dozen, of bodkins pays
on importation is. g-j-AJd.; if of iron or fteel, 4 s.
8-rJI-d.; and if of brals, only 3;^4d-
BODMIN, a borough-town of Cornwall, about twenty-
fix miles north eaft of Falmouth, in 10' W. long,
and 50° 32^ N. lat. It fends two members to parlia¬
ment, and gives the title of vifeount to'the earl of
Radnor.
Vol. I. Numb. 25. 3
BODROCH, a town of Hungary, about an hundred
miles fouth-eaft of Buda, and fituated on the north-
eaft ffiore of the Danube, in 20° 15' E. long, and 46°
i5' N. lat.
BODY, in phyfics, an extended folid fubftance, of itfelf
utterly paffive and inactive, indifferent either to motion
or reft. See Matter, and Mechanics.
(j/* Bodies. See Optics.
Defcent of Rovii-s. See Mechanics.
Divi/ion of See Chemistry.
Body, with regard to animals, is ufed in oppofition to
foul, in which fehfe it makes the fubjedt of anatomy.
Body, among painters, as to bear a body, a term fi<i-
nifying that the colours are of fuch a nature, as to be
capable of being ground fo .fine, and mixing with the
oil fo intirely, as to feem only a very thick oil of the
fame colour.
Body, in the manege. A horfe is chiefly faid to have
a good body, when he is full in the flank. If the laft
of the ffiort ribs be at a confiderable diftance from the
haunch bone, although fuch horfes may, for a time,
have pretty good bodies, yet, if they are much la¬
boured, they will lofe them; and thefe are properly
the horfes that have no flank. It is alfo a general
rule, that a man ffiould not buy a light-bodied horfe,
and one that is fiery, becaufe he will foon deftroy
himfelf.
Body, in the art of war, a number of forces, horfe
and foot, united and marching under one commander.
Main Body of an army, the troops encamped in th;
centre between the two wings, and generally infantry :
the other two bodies are the vanguard and the rear¬
guard ; thefe being the three into which an army,
ranged in form of battle, is divided.
Body, in matters of literature, denotes much the fame
with fyftem, being a collection of every thing belong¬
ing to a particular fcience or art, difpofed in proper
order: thus, we fay, a body of divinity, law, phy-
fic, he.
BOEDROMIA, in Grecian antiquity, a feftival cele¬
brated yearly by the Athenians in the month Boedro-
mion; for the ceremonies of which, fee Potter’s
Arch. Cnee. b. ii. c. 20.
BOEDROMION, in chronology, the third month of
the Athenian year, anfwering to the latter part of
our Auguft and beginning of September.
BOERHAAVIA, in botany, a genus of the monandria
monogynia clafs. It has no calix; the corolla confifts
of one bell-ihaped plaited petal; and there is But one
naked feed. There are fix fpecies, all natives of the
Indies.
BOESCHOT, a-town of the Auftrian Netherlands, fi¬
tuated in Brabant, about twelve miles north-eaft of
Malines, in 40 40' E. long, and $i° 5' N. lat.
BOG properly fignifies a quagmire, covered with grafs,
but not folid enough to fupport the weight of the body.
Bog, in geography, a river of Poland, which, running
fouth-eaft through the province of Podoliaand Buziic
Tartary, falls into the Euxine fea between Oczakow
and the mouth of the Borifthenes.
Bog, or Bog of Gight, a fmall town of Scotland,
t 7 G near
B O L ( 578 ) B O L
near the mouth of the river Spey* fituated in 20 23'
W. long, and N. lat.'
BOGARMITiE. See Bogomili.
BOGDOI, a great nation of Tartary in Afia. The
Ghinefe call them eaftern Tartars ; and in the Mogul’s
country they are called Niuchi or Nuchi.
BOGHO, or Bueil, a town in the county of Nice, in
Piedmont, fituated on the frontiers of France, about
twenty-five miles north-weft of Nice, in 6° 45' E.
long, and 440 i2/ N. lat.
BOGOMILI, or Bogarmit^:, in church-hiftory, a
fed of heretics, which fprung up about the year 117Q.
They thought that but seven books of the fcripture
are to be received, that the ufe of churches, of the
facrament of the Lord’s fupper, and all prayer, ex¬
cept the Lord’s prayer, ought to be abolifhed; that
the baptifm of Catholics is imperfed; that the per-
fons of the Trinity are unequal, and that they often¬
times made themfelves vifible to thofe of their fed.
They faid, that devils dwelt in the churches, and that
Satan had refided in the temple of Solomon from the
deftrudion of Jerufalem to their own time.
BOGOTO, the capital of New Granada, in Terra Fir-
ma, fituated'in 7,4° W. long, and 4° 'N. lat.
JBOHEA, in commerce, one of the beft kinds of tea
that come from China. There are three forts of it:
the firft is bought at Canton for 80 tals per pice; the
fecond for 45 ; and the third for 25. See Tea.
BOHEMIA, a kingdom fubjed to the houfe of Auftria,
bounded by Saxony on the north, by Poland and Hun¬
gary on the eaft, by Auftria on the fouth, and by Ba¬
varia and part of Saxony on the weft. It lies between
120 and 17° E. long, and a8° and 52° N. lat,
BOHEMIAN Bole. See Bole.
BOHOL, one of the Philippine iflands, in Afia; E.
long. 1220, N. lat. io°.
BOJANO, a city of Molife, in the kingdom of Naples,
about fifteen miles north of Benevento; E. long. 13 0
2c/, and N. lat. 410 20^
BOJARS denote Ruffian noblemen. See Russia.
BOIGUACU, in zoology, a fynoaime of the boa con-
ftridor. See Boa.
BOIL, or Furuncle, in furgery. See Furuncle.
BOILING, or Ebullition, the agitation of a fluid
body, arifing from the application of fire. See Che¬
mistry.
BOIQUIRA, the American name for the rattle-fnake.
BOIS de foignies, the foreft of Soignies, in the Auftrian
Netherlands, and province of Brabant, about three
miles fouth-eaft of Bruflels..
BOISLEDUC, called by the Dutch Hertogenbofch, a
l irge fortified town of Dutch Brabant, fituated on the
river Bommel, about twenty-three miles north eaft of
Breda; E. long. 50 2c/, ancfN. lat. 51 0 aj'.
BOKHARAH, Bocar, orBoGHAR, a city of Tartary,
in the country of theUIbecs, near Gihun and Bikunt.
BOLES are vifcid earths, lefs coherent and more fri¬
able than clay, more readily uniting with water, and
more freely fubfiding from it. They are foft and unc¬
tuous to the touch, adhere to the tongue, and by de¬
grees melt in the mouth, .impreffing. a light ienfe of.
aftringency. There are a great variety of thefe earths,
the principal of which are the following.
1. Armenian bole, when pure, is of a bright red
colour, with a tinge of yellow: It is one of the hard-
eft and moft compadt of the bodies of this dafs, and
not fmooth and gloffy like the others, but generally of
, a rough dufty furface. It does not effervefce with
adds.
2. French bole is of a pale red colour, variegated
with irregular fpecks of white and yellow. It is much
fofter than the Armenian, andllightly effervefces with
adds.
3. Bole of Blois is yellow, remarkably lighter than
the moft of the other yellow earths, and effervefces
ftrongly with acids.
4. Bohemian bole is of a yellow colour, with a
call of red, and generally of a flaky texture. It is
not afted on by acids.
5. Lemnian earth is of a pale red colour, and {light¬
ly effervefces with acids.
6. Silefian bole is of a brownilh yellow colour, and
acids have no fenfible effedls upon it.
Thefe and other earths, made into little maffes, and
ftamped with certain impreffions, are called terr<* figil-
lata;. Thefe earths have been recommended as aftrin-
gent, fudorific, and alexiphafmic. But thefe, and
many other virtues that have been afcribed to them,
appear to have no foundation. They are ftill ufed in
fluxes and complaints of the firft paffages.
BOLETUS, in botany, a genus of the cryptogamia
fungi clafs. This muftiroom is horizontal, fpungy,
and porous below. There are 14 fpecies, of which
feven are natives of Britain, viz. the fuberofus, or
cork boletus; the fomentarius, or fpongy boletus;
the verficolor, or ftriped boletus; the aibus, or white
boletus; the igniarius, or hard boletus, or touchwood ;
the bovinus, or brown boletus; and the luteus, or
yellow boletus.
BOLINGBROKE, or Bullingbroke, a market-
town of Lincolnffiire, about twenty-five miles eaft of
Lincoln; E. long. 15', N. lat 530 1^.
BOLISLAW, a town of Bohemia, about thirty miles-
north-eaft of Prague; E. long. 140 40', N. lat.
SO° 2 s'.
BOLLxARDS, large pofts fet into the ground, on each
fide of a dock. On docking or undocking {hips, large
blocks are lafhed to them; and through thefe blocks-
are reeved, the tranfporting hawfers to be brought to
the capftons.
BOLLITO,. a name by which the Italians call a fea-
green colour in artificial cryftal. To prepare this co¬
lour,, you,muft have in the furnace a pot filled with
forty pound of good cryftal, firft carefully fkimmed,
boiled, and purified, without any manganefe: then
you muft have twelve ounces of the powder of final 1
leaves of copper, thrice calcined, half an ounce of
zaffer in powder; mix them together, and put them:
at four times into the pot, that they may the better
mix with the glafs, ftirring them well each time of
putting in the powder, for fear that itfhould fwell too
much and run over*
BOLOGNA*
B O L ( 579 ) BOM
BOLOGNA, a city of Italy, fifty miles north of Flo¬
rence. It is about five miles in circumference, and is
remarkable for its magnificent churches and monafle-
ries, as well as for its univerfity, which is one of the
mofl confiderable in Europe; E. long, n0 40, and
N. lat. 440 30'.
BOLOGNE. See Boulogne.
BOLONIAN ftona, is a fulphureous kind of ftone, a-
bout the bignefs of a walnut, found near Bologna;
which, when duly prepared by calcination, makes a
fpecies of phofphorus. See Phosphorus.
BOLSENNA, a town of the pope’s territories in Italy,
about forty-five miles north of Rome, at the north
end of a lake to which it gives name; E. long. 130
45', andN. lat. 42 ^ 40/.
BOLSLAW, a town of Bohemia, fituated on the ri¬
ver Sizera, about thirty miles north-eafl of Prague;
E. long. 140 45', and N. lat. 50° 24/.
BOLSTERS of a J'addle, thofe parts of a great faddle
which are raifed upon the bows, both before and be¬
hind, to hold the rider’s thighj and keep him in a right
pofture.
BOLSWAERT, a town of Weft Friezland, in the U-
nited Provinces, about eighteen miles fouth-weft of
Lewa'rden; E. long. 50 20’, and N. lat. 530 10'.
BOLT, among builders, an iron faftening fixed to doors
and windows. They are generally diftinguifhed into
three kinds, viz. plate, round, and fpring bolts.
Bolts in gunnery are of feveral forts; as, 1. Tran-
fum bolts, that go between the cheeks of a gun-car¬
riage, to ftrengthen the tranfums. 2. Prife-bolts,
the large knobs of iron on the cheeks of a carriage,
which keep the hand-fpike from Hiding when it is poi¬
zing up the breech of a piece. 3. Fraverfe-boks,
the two fliort bolts that being put one in each end of a
mortar-carriage, ferve to traverfe her.. 4. Bracket-
bolts, the bolts that go through the cheeks of a mor¬
tar, and by the help of quoins keep her fixed at the
given elevation. And, 5. Bed-bolts, the four bolts
that faften the brackets of a mortar to the bed..
Bolts in a fhip are iron pins, of which there are fe¬
veral forts, according to their different makes and ufes.
Such are drive-bolts, ufed to drive out others. Ray-
bolts, with jags or barbs on each fide, to keep themi
from flying out of their holes. Clench-bolts, which
are clenched with rivetting hammers. Forelock bolts,
which have at the end a-forelockof iron driven in, to
keep them from ftarting back. Set-bolts, ufed for
forcing the planks, and bringing them clofe together.
Fend or fender-bolts; made with long and thick heads,
and ftruck into themttermoft bends of the fhip, to fave
her fides from brmfes. AndringrboltSj ufed for bring¬
ing to of the planks, and thofe parts whereto are faft-
ened the breeches and tackles of the guns.
Bolt of canvas, in commerce, the quantity of twenty^
eight ellsj
BoLT-rtyV. See Rope.
BOLTING, a term formerly ufed in our inns of court,:,
for the private arguing of caufes. An ancient and two ■
- barrifters fat as judges; and three ftudents, bringing
each a cafe, eut of which the judges cliofe one to bs
argued, the ftudents firft began to argue it, and after
them the barrifters. It was inferior to mooting. See
Moot.
BOLTON, a market-town of Lancafhire, about twen-
ty-feven miles north-eaft of Liverpool; W. long. 20
20', and N. lat. 530 35'.
BOLUS, an extemporaneous form of a medicine, foft,
coherent, a little thicker than honey, and the quantity
of which is a little morfel or mouthful; for which
reafon it is by fome called buccella.
Whatever is fit for internal ufe, either by itfelf, or
when mixed with other fubftances, provided it is ca¬
pable of the above mentioned confiftence, is a proper
material for the compofition of a bolus. Such are foft
fubftances more or lefs thick, as conferves, eleftuaries,
robs, pulps, extracts; fyrups and liquid fubftances, as
oils, fpirits, effences, elixirs, <&c. The dofe of bo¬
lus may be extended from one dram to one dram, and
a half, or two drams.
BOLZAS, a fort of ticking which comes from the Eaft-
Indies.
BOMAL, a town of Luxemburg, in the Auftrian Nether¬
lands, fituated on the river Ourt, about 20 miles fouth
of Liege; in 50 E. long, and 50° 20 N. lat.
BOMB, in military affairs, a large fhell of caft iron,
having a great vent to receive the fufee, which is made
of wood. The fhell being filled with gunpowder, the
fufee is driven into the vent or aperture, within an
inch of the head, and faftened with a cement made of
quick-lime, afhes, brick-duft, and fteel-filings, worked
together in a glutinous water; or of four parts of
pitch, two of colophony, one of turpentine, and one
of:wax. This tube is filled with a combuftible matter,
made of two ounces of nitre, one of fulphur* and three
of gunpowder drift, well rammed. To preferve the
fufee, they pitch it over, but uncafe it when they put
the bomb into the mortar, and cover it with gun-
power duft ; which having taken fire by the flafh of the
powder in the chamber of the mortar, burns all the
time the bomb is in the air ; and the compofition in
the fufee being fpent, it fires the powder in the bomb,
which burfts with great force, blowing up whatever is
about it. The great height the bomb goes in the air^
and the force with which it falls, makes it go deep in¬
to the earth.
Bomb-chest, a kind of cheft ufually filled with bombs, .
fometimes only with gunpowder, placed under ground
to tear it and blow it up.in the air, with thofe what'
ftand on it. It was fet on fire by means of a faucifle- :
faftened at one end, but is now much difufed..
Bomb-battery, See Battery.
BOMBARD, a piece of ordnance anciently in ufe, ex¬
ceedingly fliort and thick, and with a very large mouth.-
There have been bombards which have thrown a ball-of
300 pound weight. They made ufe of cranes to load
them.
The bombard is by fame called lafiUJk, and by the.
Dutch, donderbufs.
BOMBARDIER, a perfoh employed about a mortar.
His bufinefs is to drive the fufee, fix the Ihell, load ■
and fire the mortar.
BOM-
BOM ( 580 ) BOM
BOMBARDMENT, the havock committed in throwing
bombs into a town or fortrefs.
BOMBARDO, a mufical inftrument of the wind kind,
much the fame as -the baffoon, and ufed as a bafs to
the hautboy.
BOMBASINE, a name given to two forts of fluffs, the
one of filk, and the other croffed, of cotton.
Bombafine of filk pays duty on importation as other
foreign filks. See Silk. That of cotton pays each
piece, not exceeding 1 j yards, if narrow, if. 3s. i-^rd,
but if broad, il. 6s. 1 i-^-d.
BOMBAST, in compofition, is a ferious endeavour, by
drained defcription, to raife a low or familiar fubjedt
beyond its rank; which inftead of being fublime, never
fails to be ridiculous. The mind, in fome animating
paffions, is indeed apt to magnify its objedts beyond
natural bounds. But fuch hyperbolical defcription has
its limits, and, when carried beyond thefe, it dege¬
nerates into burlefque, as in the following example :
Sejanus. Great and high
The world knows only two, that’s Rome and I.
My roof receives me not; ’tis air I tread,
And at each flep I feel my advanc’d head
Knock out a flat in heaven.
Sejan. Ben. Johnfon, adt 5.
A writer who has no natural elevation of genius 'is ex¬
tremely apt to deviate into bombaft: He drains above
his genius, and the violent effort he makes carries him
generally beyond the bounds of propriety.
BOMB AX, or Cotton-tree, in botany, a genus of the
monodelphia polyandria clafs. It has but one dylus ;
the digma confids of five lobes; the capfule has five
cells; and the feeds are downy. There are three
fpecies, viz. the pentandrum, the ceiba, and the hep-
laphyllum, all natives of the Indies. The cotton-tree
grows generally above 60 feet high, and is fo' thick
that the Indians dig canoes which hold feveral men
out of the whole wood. There are hollows in diffe¬
rent parts of the trunk which contain large quantities
of water, which is of great ufe to travellers in the hot
climates where there is often a fcarcity of water. For
the method of making cotton, fee Cotton.
Bombax, in zoology, a fynonime of a fpecies of conus.
See Conus.
It is fometimes ufed for filk or cotton. It is like-
wife applied by Linnaeus to fignify fuch infedts as have
incumbent wings and feelers refembling a comb.
BOMBAY, an ifland on the wed coad of the hither pe-
ninfula of India, fituated in 720 20' E. long, and 180
gc/ N. lat. It is about feven miles long, and twenty
in circumference ; and is the property of our Ead-In-
dia company.
BOMB-KETCH, a fmall veffel built and drengthened
with large beams for the ufe of mortars atYea.
BOMBUS, in medicine, a refounding and ringing noife
in the ear.
BOMBYL1US, in zoology, a genus of infers belonging
to the order of diptera. The rodrum is long, bridly,
and bivalved; the bridles being fixed between the ho¬
rizontal valves. There are are five fpecies, viz. 1.
The major, with black wings. 2. The medius, with
a yellowiflr body, 'white behind, and the wings fpotted
with yellow. 3. The minor, with unfpotced wings.
4. The ater, has red wings, but a little blackidi at the
bafe; and green feet. The above four are natives of
Europe. j. The capenfis, with the wings fpotted
with black, an alh-coloured body, and white behind.
It is a native of the Cape of Good Hope.
BOMENE, a port-town of Zeland, in the United Pro¬
vinces, fituated on the northern Ihore of the ifland of
Schouen, oppofite to the ifland of Goree; in 40 E.
long, and 51° 50' N. lat.
BOMMEL, a town of Dutch Guelderland, fituated on
the northern fhore of the river Waal, about four miles
north-ead of Nimeguen; in j° 50' E. long, and 520
N. lat.
BOMONICI, in Grecian antiquity, young men of La¬
cedaemon, who contended at the facrifices of Diana
which of them was able to endure mod ladies ; being
fcourged before the altar of this goddefs.
BON, in geography, a town of the electorate of Cologn,
in Germany, fituated on the wedern fhore of the river
Rhine, about 12 miles fouth of Cologn; in 70 E.
long, and jo° 35' N. lat. It is a fmall but well for¬
tified town, and has a fine palace, which the elector of
Cologn makes his ufual refidence.
Bon is alfo the name of one of the Molucca iflands, ly¬
ing wed of Coram.
BONA, in geography, a port-town of the kingdom of
Algiers, in Africa, about 200 miles ead of the city of
Algiers; in 8° E. long, and 36° N. lat.
There is alfo a cape called Bona on the fame coad
to the eadward, almofl oppofite to Sicily.
Bona-fides, in law: When a perfon performs any ac¬
tion, which he believes at the time to be jufl and law¬
ful, he is faid to have acted bona fide.
Bona mob ilia, the fame with moveable goods or effects.
Bona notabilia, are fuch goods as a perfon dying has in
another diocefe than that wherein he dies, amounting
to the value of yl. at lead; in which cafe the will
of the deceafed mud be proved, or adminidration
granted in the court of the archbifhop of the province,
unlefs by compofition, or cudom, any diocefes are au-
thorifed to do it, when rated at a greater fum.
Bona patria, an aflize of country men, or good neigh¬
bours, where twelve or more are chofen out of the
country to pafs upon an aflize, being fworn judicially
in the prefence of the party.
Bona, in geography, a cape of Africa, near Tunis, in
the Mediterranean fea.
BONAIRE, an ifland near the coad of Terra Firma, in
South America, fituated in 67° W. long, and .12° 3c/
N. lat. It is fubjedt to the Dutch, who traffic from
thence with the Caracao-coad.
BONAROTA, in botany, the trivial name of a fpecies
of psedepota. See Pjederota.
BONASIUS, in zoology, the trivial name of a fpecies
of bos. See Bos.
BONAVENTURA,1 a fea-port town in Popayan in
South America, upon the South fea.
BON AVISTA, one of the Cape Verd Iflands, fubjedt
to Portugal; in 230 W. long, and x6° 30'. N. lar.
BOND,
BON ( 58r ) BOO
BOND, in Scots law, a formal writing by which a per-
fon binds himfelf to pay a certain fum of money to an¬
other, or to perform a certain deed, under a penalty.
Bonds refpe&ing money are divided into heritable and
moveable. See Law, tit. Heritable and moveable
rights.
Bond, in carpentry, a term among workmen; as, to
make good bond, means that they Ihould fallen two
or more pieces together, either by tenanting, mor-
tiling, or dovetailing, <bc.
BONDAGE, properly fignifies the fame with flavery ;
but, in old law-books, is ufed for villenage. SeeVit-
LENAGE.
BOND-MAN, the fame with villain. See Villain.
BONDOUR, a city of Natolia in Afia.
BONDUC, in botany, the trivial name of a fpecies of
guilandria. See Guilandria.
BONE, in anatomy. See Part I.
Bone-ace, an eafy but licking game at cards, played
thus : The dealer deals out two cards to the firfl hand,
and turns up the third, and fo on through all the
players, who may be feven, eight, or as many as the
cards will permit; he that has the higheft card turned
up to him, carries the bone, that is, one half of the
Hake, the other remaining to be played for: Again,
if there be three kings, three queens, three tens, be.
turned up, the eldeft hand wins the bone: But it is to
be obferved, that the ace of diamonds is bone-ace, and
wins all other cards whatever. Thus much for the
bone ; and as for the other half of the Hake, the near-
ell to thirty-one wins it; and he that turns up or
draws thirty-one, wins it immediately.
BON-ESPERANCE, the fame with theGape of Good-
hope. See Good-hope.
BONGO, or Bunco, the capital of one of the iilands
of Japan, to which it gives name; in 1320 E. long,
and 32° 30' N.lat. It is a fea port town, fituated on the
call fide of the illand, oppofite to the ifland of Tonfa,
from which it is feparated by a narrow channel.
BONIFACIO, in geography, a port-town of Corfica,
fituated at its fouth end, in 90 20 E. long, and 410
20 N. lat. It is one of the bell towns in the whole
ifland, and gives name to the llreight between Corfica
and Sardinia.
BONIS non amovendis, in law, is a writ diredled to the
Iheriffs of London, he. charging them, that a perfon,
again!! whom judgment is obtained, and profecutirig a
writ of error, be not fuffered to remove his goods un¬
til the error is determined.
BONNET, in a general fenfe, denotes a cover for the
head, in common ufe before the introdudlion of hats.
See Hat.
Bonnets are Hill ufed in many parts of Scotland.
Bonnet, in fortification, a fmall work, confilling of
two faces, having only a parapet with two rows of
palifadoes, of about ten or twelve feet dillance : It is
generally raifed before the faliant angle of the cdun-
terfearp, and has a communication with the covered
way, by a trench cut through the glacis, and palifa¬
does on each fide.
Bonnet a pretre, or Priejl's Bonnet, in fortification,
Vol. I. No. 25. 3
is an out-work, having at the head three faliant an*
gles, and two inwards. It differs from the double te-
naille only in this, that its fides, inllead of being pa¬
rallel, are like the queve d'aronde or fwallow’s tail,
that is, narrowing, or drawing clofe at the gorge,
and opening at the head.
Bonnet, in the fea-language, denotes an addition to a
fail: Thus they fay, lace on the bonnet, or Jhake off
the bonnet.
BONNEVILLE, a town of Savoy, fituated on the
north fide of the river Arve, about twenty miles fouth-
eall of Geneva, in 6° io'E. long, and 46° 18'N.
lat.
BONNY, among miners, a bed of ore, differing only
from a fquat as being round, wheieas the fquat is
flat. See Squat.
BONONIAN. SeeBoLONiAN.
BONOS-AYERES. See Buenos-ayres.
BONTIA, in botany, a genus of the didynamia angio-
fpermia clafs. The calix is divided into five pieces;
the corolla is bilabiated, with the fuperior labium e-
marginated, and the inferior confills of three deep-cut
fegments; the berry, which is of the drupa kind, is
oval, oblique at the apex, and contains but one plaited
feed. The fpecies are two, viz. the daphneides and
the germinata, both natives of the Indies.
BONZES, Indian prielts, who, in order to dillinguilh
themfelves from the laity, wear a chaplet round their
necks, confilting of an hundred beads, and carry a
Half, at the end of which is a wooden bird. They
live upon the alms of the people, and yet are very
charitably difpofed, maintaining feveral orphans and
widows out of their own colledions. The Tonqui-
nefe have a pagod, or temple, in each towni and eve¬
ry pagod has at leal! two bonzes belonging to it; fome
have thirty or forty. The bonzes of China are the
priefls of the Fohills, or feds of Fohi; and it is
one of their ellabliflied tenets, that there are rewards
allotted for the righteous, and punilhments for the
wicked in the other world; and that there are various
manfions, in which the fouls of men will refide, ac¬
cording, to their different degrees of merit. The bon¬
zes of Pegu are generally gentlemen-of the highelf ex-
tradion.
BOOK, the general name of almoll every literary com-
pofition ; but, in a more limited fenfe, is applied only
tofuch coihpofitions as are large enough to make a vo¬
lume. As to the origin of books or writing, thofe of
Mofes are undoubtedly the molt ancient that are ex¬
tant : But Mofes himfelf cites many books that beho¬
ved to be wrote before his time. See Character.
Of profane books, the oldell extant are Homer’s
poems, which were fo even in the time of Sextus
Empiricus; though we find mention in Greek writers
of feventy others prior to Homer; as Hermes, Or¬
pheus, Daphne, Horus, Linus, Mufeus, Palamedes,
Zoroaller, he.; but of the greater part of thefe there
is not the leaf! fragment remaining and of others,
the pieces which go under their names are generally
held, by the learned, to be fuppofititious.
Several forts of materials were ufed formerly in
f 7 H making
582 B O O K - K
making books: Plates of lead and copper, the barks
of trees, bricks, ftone, and wood, were the firit mate¬
rials employed to engrave fuch things upon as men
were willing to have tranfmitted to pofterity. Jofe-
phus fpeaks of two columns, the one of ftone, the o-
ther of brick, on which the children of Seth wrote
their inventions and aftronomical difcoveries: Por¬
phyry makes mention of fome pillars, preferved in
Crete, on which the ceremonies praftifed by the Co-
rybantes in their facrifices were recorded. Hefiod's
works were originally written upon tables of lead, and
depofitedin the temple of the Mufes, in Boeotia: The
ten commandments, delivered to Mofes, were written
upon ftone; and Solon’s laws upon wooden planks.
Tables of wood, box, and ivory, were common among
the ancients: When of wood, they were frequently
covered with wax, that people might write on them
with more eafe, or blot out what they had written.
The leaves of the palm-tree were afterwards ufed in-
ftead of wooden planks, and the fineft and thinneft
part of the bark of fuch trees, as the lime, the afh,
the mapple, and the'elm ; from hence comes the word
liber, which fignifies the inner bark of the trees : and
as thefe barks were rolled up, in order to be removed
with greater eafe, thefe rolls were called volumen, a
volume; a name afterwards given to the like rolls of
paper or parchment.
Thus we find bocks were firft written on ftones,
witnefs the Decalogue given to Mofes : Then on the
parts of plants, as leaves chiefly of the palm-tree ; the
rind and barks, efpecially of the tilia, or phillyrea,
and the Egyptian papyrus. By degrees wax, then
leather, were introduced, efpecially the Ikins of goats
and fheep, of which at length parchment was prepared:
Then lead came into ufe; alfo linen, filk, horn,, and.
Jaftly paper itfelf.
E E P I N G.
The firft books were in the form of blocks and ta¬
bles ; but as flexible matter came to be wrote on, they
found it more convenient to make their books in the
form of rolls : Thefe were compofed of feveral flreets,
faftened to each other, and rolled upon a ftick, or
umbilicus; the whole making a kind of column, or
cylinder, which was to be managed by the umbilicus
as a handle, it being reputed a crime to take hold of
the roll itfelf: The outfide of the volume was called
frons; the ends of the umbilicus, cornua, which were
ufually carved, and adorned with filver, ivory, or e-
ven gold and precious ftones : The title <TvK^»Cof, was
ftruck on the outfide; the whole volume, when ex¬
tended, might make a yard and a half wide, and fifty
long. The form which obtains among us is the
fquare, compofed of feparate leaves; which was alfo
known, though little ufed, by the ancients.
To the form of books belongs alfo the internal
oeconomy, as the order and arrangements of points and
letters into lines and pages, with margins and other
appurtenants : This has undergone many varieties ; at
firft the letters were only divided into lines, then into
feparate words, which, by degrees, were nqjed with
accents, and diftributed, by points and flops, into pe¬
riods, paragraphs, chapters, and other divifions. In
fome countries, as among the orientals, the lines be¬
gan from the right and ran leftward ; in others, as
the northern and weftern nations, from left to right;
others, as the Greeks, followed both directions, alter¬
nately going in the one, and returning in the other,
called boujlrophedon : In moft countries, the lines
run from one fide to the other; in fome, parti¬
cularly the Chinefe, from top to bottom. See Com¬
position.
BOOK-KEEPIN G.
BOOK-KEEPING is an art, teaching how to record
and difpofe the accompts of bufinefs, fo as.the true
ftate of every part, and of the whole, maybe eafily and
diftinftly known.
Though the number and kinds of books ufed in- this art
be in fome meafure arbitrary, there are three which can
never be difpenfed with by thofe whofe trade is complex
or extenfive, viz, the Wajie-book, Journal, and Ledger.
I. Of the Waste-book.
The Wafte-book is a regifter, containing an inventory
©f a merchant’s effects and debts, with a record of all
his tranfaftions, narrated in a plain, fimple ftyle, and in
the exaCt order of time, as they fucceed one another.
The Wafte-book opens with the inventory, which
confifts of two parts: Firft, thz effefts, that is, the mo¬
ney a merchant has by him, the goods he has on hand,
his ftiare in ftiips, houfes, farms, i&c.-With the debts
due to him; the fecond part of tire inventory is the debts-
due by him to others : The difference betwixt which and
the effects* is what merchants call When a
man begins trade, the inventory muft be gathered from
a- furvey of the particulars that make up his real eftate ;
but muft afterwards be collected from the balance of his
old books, and carried to the new. This- inventory is
the firft thing narrated in the Wafte-book* as being the
fource and fpring whence all fubfequent tranfaCtions flow.
After the inventory is fairly narrated in the Wafte-
book, the tranfaCtions of trade come next to be jotted
down;
B O O K - K
down; which is a daily tafk, to be performed as they
occur ; and ihould be done diftindly, that is, every
thing (hould be clearly and exadtly expre/Ted.
If no fubfidiary books are kept, the Wafte-book
fhould contain a record of all the merchant’s tranfaftions
and dealings in a way of trade; and that not only of
fuch as are properly and purely mercantile, but of every
occurrence that affedfs his dock, fo as to impair or in-
creafe it; fuch as, private expences, fervants fees, houfe-
rents, money gained or loft on wagers, legacies, and the
like. By fuch occurrences as thefe, a merchant as ef¬
fectually becomes fo much poorer or richer, as by the
refult of any branch of his trade. And the ends pro-
pofed in book-keeping can never be gained, if fuch things
pafs unrecorded.
E E P I N a 5&3
that diftinguifheth the two books is the ftyle ; that of the
one being natural, and that of the other artificial. In
the Journal, perfons and things are charged Debtor.! to
other perfons or things as Creditors; and in this it agrees
with the Ledger, where the fame ftyle is ufed, but dif¬
fers from it as to form and order: So that it agrees with
the Wafte-book in thofe very things wherein it differs
from the Ledger; and on the other hand, it agrees with
the latter in that very point wherein it differs from the
former.
But an example of the Wafte-book turned into the
Journal form, will give a clearer idea than can be con¬
veyed by words.
WASTE-BOOK.
II. 0/ the Journal.
The Journal is the book wherein the tranfaCHons
recorded in the Wafte-book are prepared to be carried
to the Ledger, by having their proper debtors and cre¬
ditors afcertained and pointed out.
One great defign of the Journal is, to prevent errors
in the Ledger ; a thing of the worft confequence in
book-keeping ; which yet, without the help of this book,
would be almoft inevitable. For, fuppofe a perfon Ihpuld
attempt to form the Debtors and Creditors from the
Wafte-book in his mind, and at the fame time poft them,
to the Ledger, he fhall find his thoughts fo much em-
barraffed and over-charged, by attending at once to fo
many different things as occur here, that, were he an
accomptant of very great experience, he could not well
mifs of falling into frequent blunders. This makes it
neceffary to didvide the talk, and do at twice what can¬
not be performed at once, without fuch hazard of mif-
takes ; that is, firft to write out the Debtors and Cre¬
ditors in a feparate book by themfelves, and afterward
transfer them to the Ledger. The work by this means
being divided into parts, becomes more fimple, and con¬
sequently more eafy, and fo may be performed with great¬
er certainty of its being right. Again, after the Ledger
is filled up, the Journal facilitates the work required in
revifing and correfling it; for, firft the Wajle-book and
Journal are compared, and then the Journal and Ledger.
Whereas, to revife and correct the Ledger immediately
from the Wafte-book, would be a matter of no lefs dif¬
ficulty than to form it without the help of a Journal.
Laftly, The Journal is defigned as a fair record of a
merchant’s bufinefs : For neither of the other two books
can ferve this purpofe ; not the Ledger, by reafon both
of the order that obtains in it, and alfo on account of its
brevi y, being little more than a large Index. Nor can
the Wafte-book anfwer this defign; for being written up
in the tirrfc of bufinefs, and commonly too by different
hands, it can neither be fair and uniform, nor very ac¬
curate.
The Journal is a kind of middle book'betwixt the o-
ther two ; it looks back to the one, .and forward to the
other. With the Wafte-book it agrees in form, being
ruled after the fame manner. The order alfo and fuc-
cdfioir of things is the fame in both. The thing then
J O U R N A L.
-July ift-
Black Cloth Dr to Cajh 28-/.
Paid for 40 yards, at iqr.
/. /. d.
Shalloon Dr to Sundries 434
To Cajh, in part for 100?
yards, at toiri j
To J. Sloan, for the reft,?
at 2 months _>
—4th —
Sundries Drs to Port Wine 110 /. /. /. d.
Cajh, in part, for 4 pipes,
27 /. 10 r.
Will. Pope, for the reft on
demand.
5J 00 o
n ?
1 55
Before proceeding to give rules for writing in the
Journal,' it will be neceiTary to-take notice, that every
cafe or example of the Wafte-book, when- entered in the
Journal,iis called a Journalpojl •ox entry : Thus the ex¬
amples above make up three diftinft polls. Again, a poll
is either fimple or complex, h fimple pojl is that which
ha*
584 B O O K - K
has but one Debtor and one Creditor, as the firft of
thefe above. A complex pojl is either when one Debtor
is balanced by two or more Creditors, as in the fecond
port; or when two or more Debtors are balanced by
one Creditor, as in the third port ; or when feveral
Debtors are balanced by feveral Creditors, and then the
poll: is faid to be complex in both its terms. This being
premifed, the rules to be obferved are thefe following.
I. In a fimple port, the debtor is to be exprefsly men¬
tioned, then the creditor, and, laltly, the fum, all in
one line: After which follows the narrative, or reafon
of the entry, in one or more lines, as in the firfl: of
thefe three polls above.
II. In a complex poll, the feveral Debtors or Creditors
are exprelfed in the firft line, by Sundries, or Sundry
Accompts, and the reft of the line filled up as in the
E E P I N g;
former rule. After which, the feveral Debtors or
Creditors muft be particularly mentioned, each in a
line by themfelves, with their refpe&ive fums fubjoin-
ed to them; which are to be added up, and their to¬
tal carried to the money-columns, as in the fecond
and third polls.
The Journal, as deferibed and exemplified above, is
the form that was firft in ufe among merchants; and is
ftill the moft common : but fome make their Journal juft
a fair copy of the Walle-book, with the Debtors and
Creditors written out on the margin, which is ruled large
for that purpofe. We lhall here fubjoin the three pre¬
ceding polls done after this way ; which, to one who un-
derftands the common method, will be fuflicient inftruc-
tion.
-July ift.-
Dr Black Cloth, l. s. d.
Cr Cajl?, - 28 00 00
Bought 40 yards black cloth.
Sloan, ! 2 03 04
Dr Shalloon,
Cr Port Wine,
Bought Of James Sloan too yards
lhalloon, at 10^.
Whereof paid — — 2 00 00
Reft due at 2 mon, - 2 03 04
55 00 00
$ S 00 00
10 00 00
-4th.-
Sold Will. Pope 4 pipes Port wine, at
27 /. 10 /.
Whereof received — 55 00 00
Reft due on demand 55 00
Of the Terms Debtor and Creditor.
The nature and ufe of the terms Debtor and Credi¬
tor will be obvious, from the confiderations following.
I. Accompts in the Ledger conlift of two parts,
which in their own nature arediredtly oppofed to, and the
reverfe of one another; which therefore are fet fronting
one another, on oppofite fides of the fame folio. Thus,
all the articles of money received go to the left fide of
the Calh-accompt, and all the articles or fums laid out
are carried to the right. In like manner, the purchafe
of goods is polled to the left fide of the accompt of the
faid goods, and the fale, or difpofal of them, to the
right, &c.
II. Tranfa<5Hons of trade, or cafes of the Wafte-
book, are alfo made up of two parts, which belong to
different accompts, and to oppofite fides of the Ledger:
e, g. If goods are bought for ready money, the two
parts are, the goods received, and the money delivered ;
the former of which goes to the left fide of the accompt
of faid goods, and the latter to the right fide of the
Cafh-accompt.
III. Thefe two different parts, in Qafes of the Wafte-
book, are not oppofed to one another, as the two fides
of the Ledger-accompts are ; but, on the contrary, have
a mutual connexion and dependence, the one being the
ground, condition, or caufe of the other. Thus, in the
preceding example, when goods are bought for ready
money, the receipt of the goods is the caufe'of parting
with the money; and, on the other hand, the delivering
of the money is the condition on which the goods are
received.
From thefe three obfervations, it is plain, that, in or¬
der to poll a cafe of the Wafte-book to the Ledger, the
firft thing the accomptant muft do, is, to divide the cafe
into its parts, and then to think with himfelf, to which
accompt, and to what fide, each of thefe parts is to be
carried ; and when the entry is a&ually made, the con¬
nexion of the parts with one another muft be expreffed
in each of the accompts to which they are tranfported.
Now, fince in fpeaking and writing things muft' have
names whereby they may be expreffed and written, it is
neceflary that two words or terms be contrived, and ap¬
propriated to thefe two different parts, that have the
fame relation to one another as the parts themfelves
have, which may at once charaderife and diftinguilh the
parts from one another, point out and afeertain to what
fide of'the Ledger each of them is to be carried, and
withal exprefs their relation to, and dependence upon
one another.
The Italians at firft for this purpofe pitched upon the
terms
(*585)
B O O K - K
SifiTis Debtor and Creditor, becaufe their common ac¬
ceptation comes nearer to the thing here meant than any
other they couid think on. By means of thefe terms,
the two parts, in any cafe of the Wafte-book, when port¬
ed to thejourna), are denominated, the one the Debtor,
and the other the Creditor, of that port. And when
carried from thence to the Ledger, the Debtor, or
Debtor part, is entered upon the left fide (hence called
the DebtorJide) of its own account, where it is char¬
ged Debtor to the Creditor part. Again, the Creditor,
or Creditor part, is ported to the right fide, or Credi-
tor-fide of its accompt, and made Creditor by the Debtor
part. Hence Italian book-keeping is faid to be a me¬
thod of keeping accompts by double entry, becaufe every
fingle cafe of the Wafte-book requires at lead two entries
in the Ledger, viz. one for the Debtor, and another for
the Creditor.
We ihallillurtrate what has been faid by two examples.
Firji, Suppofe a merchant buys a pipe of wine for ready
money, the two parts in this cafe are, the wine received,
and the money delivered for it, which are charadterifed
by the terms Debtor and Creditor in the Journal port
thus : Wine Dr to cajh ; where the meaning is, (though
to exprefs it fo is needlefs), that as WineisDrxoGaJh, fo
Cajb is Cr by Wine. And accordingly when carried to
the Ledger, the Wine-accompt is charged Dr to Cajh,
and the Cajh-accompt is made Cr by Wine. Again,
7.dly, Admit the merchant fells this pipe of wine for pre-
fent money, in this cafe the two parts are the fame as
before; but when clothed with Debtor and Creditor,
will ftand inverted thus: Cajh Dr to Wine. And ac¬
cordingly, in the Ledger, the Cajh-accompt is charged
Dr to Wine, and the Wine-aceempt gets credit by Cajh.
From all which it is evident, the terms Debtor and Cre¬
ditor are nothing elfe but marks or charadteriftics ftamped
upon the different parts of tranfadtions in the Journal,
expreffiog the relation of thefe parts to one another, and
fhewing to which fide of their refpedlive accompts in the
Ledger they are to be carried.
Rules relating toDebtorand Creditor.
I. A thing received upon truft, is Dr to the perfon of
Whom it is received.
II. The perfon to whom a thing is delivered upon truft,
is Dr to the thing delivered.
Ill A thing received, is Dr to the thing given for it.
IV. In antecedent and fub equent cafes, parts that are
the reverfe of one another in the nature of the thing, are
alfo oppofed in re<pedt of terms.
V In cafes where perfonaf and' real Drs or Crs are
wanting, the defedt muft be fupplied by iidhtious ones.
VI. In complex cafes, the fundry Drs or Crs are to be
ma'-e out from the preceding rules jointly taken.
We now proceed to the particular application of Debt¬
or and Creditor in the feveral branches of trade, viz.
I. Proper trade, which a merchant carries on for hira-
felf.
II. Fafterage, which he manages for another, called
his Employer;
III. Partnerjhip, which is carried oa by a truftee, in
same of all the partners.
E E P 1 N G. %
1. IN PROPER TRADE.
Proper trade is either domeftic or foreign. Proper
domejlic trade, is that which a merchant carries on by
himfelf, without the help of a fadtor. Proper foreign
trade, is the bufinds that occurs to a merchant by em¬
ploying a fadtor.
\Jl, Debtor and Creditor applied in proper domertic
trade.
Proper domeftic trade, comprehends the inventory,
buying. Jelling, bartering, receiving money, and paying
money. To each of thefe we ihall aflign a diftindt pro¬
blem ; and, to prevent burdening the learner’s memory,
we (hall deliver the feveral cafes as compendioufly as pcf-
fible, fubjoining to each problem fuch notes as feem ne-
cdfary for clearing any thing that requires further illu-
ft ration.
W. B. As we refer from the cafes and notes of each problem, to the exam¬
ples of the IVajic-bock and Journat, by the dates; fo we have made ufe of let¬
ters and numbers, as references from them to the cafes and notes of the pro¬
blems, which the reader will eafily obterve.
Prob. i. A. Debtor and Creditor applied to the
inventory.
The inventory confifts of two parts, and accordingly
is journalized at twice, viz. j. Sundries Dxs \o Stock.
The feveral Drs are, Cajh, for the merchant’s ready
money ; Goods on hand, for their refpedHve values ; Per
Jons, for their debts due to him. 2. Stock Dr to Sun.
dries. The feveral Crs are, the perfons to whom thn,
merchant owes. Compare the Wajle-book and Journal,-
Jan. 1.
Note, Stock is a fiflitious term ufed inftead of the merchant’s name.
Prob. 2. B. Debtor and Creditor applied in buying.
In buying one fingle commodity, there are feven dif-
tindt cafes, {viz. three fimple, and four complex): in
pH which the goods bought and received are Dr; but the
Cr varies according to the terms of purebafe.
Cafe 1. When goods are bought for ready money,
the entry is, Goods bought Dr to Cajh. Jan. 6.
2. When goods are bought, and paid for by givingthe
feller a bill, or note upon a third perfon, Goods bought
Dr to the Accepter, viz. the faid third perfon.
3. When goods are bought on time. Goods bought Dr'
to the Seller. Jan. 10. Ofl. 2X.
4^ When goods are bought for part money, part bilh .
Goods bought Dr to Sundries, viz.
Tt Cafh, for the lum paid,
To Accepter, ‘or value oi the bill.
5. W lien goods are bought lor pan money, part on time.
Goods bought Dr to Sundries, viz.
To Cajh, paid in part,
Fo Seller, for the reft. Jan. 15.
61 When goods are bought tor part bill, part time.
Goods bought Dr to Snnarics, viz.
To Accepter, for varne ol the bill.
To Seller, for the reft.
7. When goods ate bought for part money, part bill, ,
part time,
Cust//bought D to Sundries, viz.
To Cafh, for ihe fum paid,
TT
O K - K
PING.
C To Cajh, ifbought for ready money. Feb. 16..
Sundries Drs, < To ^h:l1
Ire
To dtcepter, for value of the bill,
To Se'Ier, for the reft. Feb. 2.
Nr,,,, wiien two or more kinds of goods are boughf from one perfon at the
fair - time there w;ll be two or more Drs, "viz. tHe feveral kinds of goods
bo'i 'ht eaeh for their value. And the fame variety ofcafes will occur here as
wtie i one fmvlc commodity is bought; fo that, if the fundry goods be bought
for ready money, or on bill, or on time, the entry will be,
f To Cafh, ifbought for i
( To Accepter, if on bill,
! To Seller, if on time.
fundrv goods are bought for part money, part bill, or for partmo-
ne or for part bill, pa?t time, &c. it is bed to refolve the cafe in¬
to two entries’ -viz- Firft charge the Goods Dr to the Seller, for their full va¬
lve as i f tiiev bad been bought on time; and then make the Seller Dr So C ifb,
ir to the AcceHer, or to both, (as the nature of the cafe is), for the part paid.
Thus, fuppofe the goods are bought for part money, part bill, part time, the
tWi° Dumfries DrsVo the Seller, for the rsfpeftive values of the goods.
3.'. Seller, Veto Sundries, v\z.
To Cafh, for the fum paid.
To Accepter, for value of the bill. , , . ,
Nntez if you buy goods to be received feme time afterward; ana, in prof-
peftofthis, advance fomc part of the price to the feller: in this cafe, charge
the Seller Dr to Call?, forthefura Advanced; and when you receive the poods,
make them Dr to the feller, for their full value. Or if immediately uponrecei-
ving them you clear with the fel‘ ‘ ' ' J " '
w paid-
the Seller, for the fum formerly advanced; and to Cafh, for the fum
 : *—- commonly a penalty agreed on
nance. Now, if in this cafe the
advanced, and now the
^Icferi
indead of ufme the general accompt, Profit and Lofs. you may ereft m the
reciter an accompt, under the title of Refufal of bargains, which is to be made
Debtor for all the penalties of this nature you pay, and get Crerfif for all you re¬
ceive Mav 11. If you buy goods to be received afterwards, without advan¬
cing anv part of tlie price; it is fufficient to take a note of them in a pocket-
book ; and when you receive them, they are booked as goods prefentiy
bought.
Prob. 3. C. Debtor and Creditor applied in felling.
Sellingis juft the reverfe of buying, and has the fame
variety of cafes, viz. feven ; whereof three are fimple,
and four complex: in all which, the goods fold and de¬
livered are Cr; but the Dr varies according to the con¬
ditions ofyfale.
Cafe 1. When goods are fold for ready money, the en¬
try is, Cafh Dr to Goods fold. Feb. 25.
2. When goods are fold on bill or note. Accepter Dr
to Goods fold. Marchs’]. See Note 7.
3. When goods are fold on time, Buyer Dr to Goods
fold. March I,
4. When goods are fold for part money, part bill.
Sundries Drs to Goods fold, viz.
Cafh, for the fum received.
Accepter, for value of the bill. March 22.
5. When goods are fold for part money, part on time.
Sundries Drs to Goods Md, viz.
Cafh, received in part.
Buyer, for the reft. March
6. When goods are fold for part bill, part time,
Sundries Drs to Goods fold, viz.
Accepter, for value of the bill,
Buyer, for the reft.
7. When goods are fold for part money, part bill,
part time,
Sundries Drs to Goods fold, viz.
Cajh, for the lum received,
Accepter, for nice of the bill.
Buyer, for the reft.
Note 1. Thus the entries in buying and felting one Cngleeommodity are juft
the reverfe of one another: and this aifo holds in buying and felling two or
more kinds of goeeb; which we (hail therefore pars, referring the learner to
the cafes ot buying in the preceding problem.
IVore a/Tf you fell goods to be delivered, not prefentiy, but fome time after¬
ward. and receive money /er advance, charge Cafit Dr to the Buyer, for the
fum received; and when you deliver the goods, charge the Buyer Dr to Did
Goods, for their full value. But if, upon delivery of the goods, you immedi¬
ately receive the remaining parr of their price, enter Sundries (viz. the Buyer,
for the fum received per advance, and Cafh, for the fum now received) Drs to
the Goods delivered. If y ou find you cannot perform the bargain, and be obli¬
ged to return the money advanced, and pav the penalty, make Sundries (viz'
the Buyer, for the fum advanced, and Profit and Lofs, or Refufal of bargains*
for the penalty) Drs to Cafk now paid.
Note 3. If you fell a (hip, houfe, &c. enter Cafh, or the Buyer, Dr to faid Shifi
or Houfe, for the price they are fold at.
Note 4. If you fend goods to A. B. and leave it to his choice, whether to
keep or return them, ereit an account under the title of Sufpenfe-accompt, and
charge it Dr to the^ewtfr lent off. If the goods be returned, reverfe theformer
entry. If he keep them, charge A. B. Dr to Sufpenfe-account, for the value of
the goods fent him. If he fends up the price, charge Cafh Dr to Sufpenfe.ac-
compt. MayT. June Id.
Prob. 4. D. Debtor and Creditor applied in bartering.
Barter, or the exchanging of goods for goods, is no¬
thing elfe but buying and felling blended together; the
cafes of which, if the goods received and delivered be of
equal value, are thefe four.
Cafe 1. When one commodity is received for another
delivered, enter Wares received Dr to Wares delivered.
April ro.
2. When one commodity is received for two or more
delivered, enter received Dr to Sundries, viz.
to the feveral •wares delivered, for their refpedtive va¬
lues.
3 When two or more forts of wares are received for
one delivered, eater Sundries (viz. the feveral nvanf/ re¬
ceived, each for their value) Drs to Wares delivered.'
April 16.
4. When feveral wares are bartered with A. B. for
feveral, make two entries, and that whether the wares
received and delivered be of equal value or not.
1. A.B. Dr to Sundries, viz. to each fort delivered,
for their refpeftive values.
2. Sundries (viz. each fort received, for their refpec-
tive values) Drs to A. B. April 30.
Note I. Suppofingthe goods reccired and delivered are notin themfeives
of equal value, but that the deficiency is made up by money or bill, or the
one merchant gives the other credit for the difference: upon this fuppofition
there will be feveral other cafes; fuch as, I. Wares received, for part wares,
part money, z. For part wares, part bill. 3. Part wares, part time. 4. Part
wares, part money, part time, &c. In all which cafes, the ’Varcs received
are Dr to Sundries. The particular Crs in each cafe are as follows.
r r CT'0 Wares delivered, far their value,
aje I. Caffs, for the fum paid.
To Wares delivered, for their value,
n
£To Accepter, for the bill,
CTo Wares delivered, for their value,
^To dealer, for the reft.
To Wares delivered, for their value.
To Cafh, for the fum paid,
To Dealer, for the reft.
Note x. On the other hand, wares in barter may go off, or be delivered.
For part wares, part money, z. For part wares, part bill. 3. Part wares, part
:s, part money, part time, &c. In all which cafes, Sundries
■es delivered. The particular Drs in each cafe are the fame
e cafes immediately preceding, as follows.
QWares received, for their value,
^Cafh, for the fum received. April 22.
( Wares received, for their value,
£ Accepter, for the bill.
C Wares received, for their value,
I Dealer, for the reft.
CWares received, for their value,
\Cafh, for the fum received,
(^Dealer, for the reft.
Debtor and Creditor applied in receiving
money.
In all cafes of this nature, Cafh is Dr; but the Cr
varies, .according to the teems on which the money is re¬
ceived.
Caft
time. 4. Part
are Drs to the
with the Crs
Cafe 1
•3-
Prob. 5 E.
BOOK-KEEPING. (*A)
Cafe i. When you receive money for goods prefently
fold, the entry, as already mentioned in the firft cafe of
felling, is, Dr to fold, for their value. Feb. 25.
2. When you borrow, or take up money at interell,
enter Cajb Dr to the Lender, for the fum received,
mentioning the rate of intereft, and time of payment,
3. When you get money, whether as payment of a
debt, or taken up at intereft, and receive it, not from
the debtor or lender, but upon his aflignation from a
third perfon, enter Cojh Dr to the Jjfigner, not to hhn
that pays it.
4. When you receive money, as payment of goods
formerly fold, or in payment of an accepted bill or note,
or any other debt, where neither difcount nor intereft
is allowed, enter Cafh Dr to the Payer, for the fum
received, mentioning whether in full or in part. Feb. 5.
March 23. April b. July 0,0. Aug. 3. Nov. 12.
5. When you receive money, as payment of an accept¬
ed bill or note, or any other debt, (except for goods for¬
merly fold), per advance, and upon that account allow
difcount, or abatement on any other confideration, enter
Sundries Drs to the Payer, viz.
Cafh, for the fum received.
Profit and Lofs, for the fum difcounted or abated.
Nov. 12.
6. When, in receiving payment for goods formerly
fold, you allow difcour.t or abatement; if the accompt
of faid goods be clofed in the Ledger, enter as in the
laftcafe: but if the faid accompt be yet open, enter thus.
Sundries Drs to the Buyer, viz.
Cafh, for the fum received.
Goods, for the fum difcoanted or abated. April \,
7. When you receive money, as intereft of a fum for¬
merly lent, the principal being continued, enter Cajh Do
to Profit and Lofs, or to -Interejl accompt, for the fum
received. Sept. vo.
8 When you receive both principal and intereft, enter
Cafh Dr to Sundries- viz.
To; the Borrower, for the principal,
To Profs and Lofs, or to Intcrcjl-accovipt, for the
intereft Nov.%-
9 When you receive moneyas the premium for infu-
ring another man’s fhip or goods at fea. tmtrCafh Dr
to Infurance accompt, or to Profit and Lofs.
10. When you receive money as the price of a Ihip,
houfe, or eftate, prefently fold, or as the freight, or the
rent of them, fuppofing the hiring out of the fhip, or
fetting of the houfe, e5rc. not to be-booked, enter Cafh
'■Dr to fuch a Ship. Houfe, or Efiate. S pt. 1.
it. But if the hiring out of the fhip, houfe, or eftate,
was formerly booked, the entry for money received as
freighiorrent will be, CafhDr to the Freighter or 1 enant,
12 When you receive money, in legacy or compli
intent, or with an apprentice, or as gained on a wager,
or by exchange of mon y, ice for which nothing goes
cut, enter-Dr to Profit and L'fs, or to Stock
Prob. 6. F. Debtor and Creditor applied in paying
mony.
-In all cafes of this nature, Cb/£ is .Cr; but the.Dr va¬
ries, according to the terms on which the money is de*
livered.
Cafe l. When you pay money for goods prefently
bought, the entry (as already ftated in the firft cafe of
buying) is, Goods bought Dr to Cajh, for the hum paid.
Jan 6-
2. When you lend or give out money at intereft, en¬
ter the Ziarrewrr Dr to for the principal, mention¬
ing the rate of intereft, and time of payment. March 10,
Augujl 6.
3 When, by order of your creditor, you pay money
to any perfon, enter the Ajjigner (not the Ajjignee) Dr to
Cafh, for the lum paid.
4. When you pay for goods formerly bought, or pay
an accepted bill or note, or any other debt, where neither
difcount nor intereft is allowed; enter the Receiver Dr to
Cajh, for the fum paid, mentioning whether in full or in
part. Jan. 15. Jan.o,o. March 10. and 23. May
June 8. June 22. and 29.
5. When you pay an accepted bill or note, or any other
debt, (except for goods formerly bought), per advance,
and upon that account have difcount allowed you, or a-
batement on any other confideration; enter
Receiver Dr to Sundries, viz.
To Cafh, for the fum paid,
To Profit and Lofs, for the fum difeounted.
6. When, in paying for goods formerly bought, ypa
have difcount or abatement allowed ; if the accompt of
faid goods in the Ledger be clofed, enter as in the laft
cafe ; but if the faid accompt be yet open, enter thus.
Receiver Dr to Sundries, viz.
To Cafh, for the ft m paid.
To Goods, for the fum difcounted or abated.
7. When you pay the intereft of a fum formerly bor¬
rowed, the principal being continued in your own hand;
enter Profit and Lofs, or Interejl accompt. Dr to Cajh,
for the (um paid.
8 When you pay both principal and intereft, enter
Sundries Drs to Cafh, viz.
Lender, for the principal,
Profit and Lofs, or Interefl-accompt, for the intereft.
9. When a (hip or goods you have formerly infured
happens to be loft, and thereupon you pay the value to the
owners, enter Infurance-accompt Dr to Cafh, for the fum
paid.
10. When you pay for a fhip, houfe, or eftate, pre¬
fently bought or pay repairs, taxes, or other charges
on them tox^r Ship, Houfe, or Efiate. Dr to Cajh, for
the fum paid.
n When you pay charges on goods, as freight, por¬
terage isc. enter Go us Dr to Cajh, for the him paid.
12. Wien you pay charges that relate to trade in ge¬
neral, fuch as warehoule rent, fhop-rent, (hop keepers
w ges, poftage of letter®, ice. enter Ch rges oj merchan¬
dize D to Cafh. July 2. Jely J.
43. Whin you pay your ir.udlord rent for a dwell ng-
boufe, iervants their wages, or make any dftburfements
for you felf or family ; as all expenses of this nature
ihould be colieffed in a ftnall book by themfelves; fo,
when you bring them to the Journal, entt r thus:
Houfe-expenccs Dr to Cajh, .for the total. Nov. 11.
Dec. 30.
14,
(*A) B O O K - K
14. When you pay upon lofing a wager ; or when
you lofe upon exchange, that is, put off a piece of coin
for lefs than it coil you ; or when you give away money
tn charity, or any other way not yet yet mentioned, for
which nothing comes in; enter Profit and Lofis Dr to
Cafij, Oft. 22.
N G.
E E P I
Ifllifexs:
2dly, Debtor and Creditor applied in proper foreign-
trade.
Proper foreign trade comprehends, 1. The Jhipping of
goods to a faCtor. 2. Advites concerning them from the
fattor. 3. Returns snade by the faCior to you.
Prob. 1. G. Debtor and Creditor applied in flipping
off goods to a faCtcr.
In all cafes,
s Dr; 1
e Cr. va-
voyage U
xording as the goods (hipped 0
tered in your books, or prefently bought; ;
either for ready money, or on time, &c.
Cafe 1.. If you (hip off goods which are already en¬
tered in year books, enter
Voyage Dr to Sundries, viz.
To the refpeftive Goods, for their value,
'ToCafl, for cuftom, infurance, and all other charges.
2. If you buy a cargo for ready money, and (hip it off
immediately, without entering the purchafe in your books,
enter Voyage Dr to Cafl, for prime cod, and all charges.
3 . If you buy goods on time, and (hip them off, with-
rring them in yoi
Voyage Dr to Sundries,
To 5
Seller, or Sellers, for value of the goods.
To Cafl, for charges at (hipping.
4.. If you (hip off a cargo, made up partly of good®"
taken from your own warehoufe, partly of goods bought,,
on time, enter
Voyage Dr to Sundries, viz.
To Goods your own, for their value,
To Seller or Sellers, for value of the goods bought.
To Cafl, for all c
fUff™
Prob. 2. H. I. Debtor and- Creditor applied, upon ad*
vice from your faCtor, A. B.
H. §.1. The cafes of the firjl advice.
In all cafes of the firfl: advice, Voyage to is Cr;.
but the Dr varies, according to the nature of the advice.
Cafe 1 If the fiift advice be, That A. Ii. has recei¬
ved your goods, but fold none of them> enter A B my
accompt of goods . Dr to Voyage, for the fum the faid
voyage was formerly charged with.
7 If the fird advice be, That A. B has received the
goods, and (old them for ready money, enter A. B. my
accompt current Dr to Voyage, for the neat proceeds y
that is, the fum due to you, after the faftor’s commiilion
and all charge* are deduced. Sep. 22.
3. If
BOO
3. IF the Srf} advice be, That the goods
and all fold on time, enter A B my accompt on time Dr
to Voyage, for the neat proceeds
4 If the firft advice be. That they are received, and
all fold, part for ready money, part on time, enter
Sundries Drs to Voyage, viz
4 B wy carren/, for the money in his hands,
y/. B. my accompt on time, for the debts outftanding.
5. If the firft advice be, That the goods are not only
received and fold, but a cargo (hipped in return, and now
at fea ; here there are three varieties. 1. If the value
of the cargo inward, with charges paid by the faftor, be
equal-to the neat proceeds, enter Voyage inward Dr to
Voyage outward, for the neat proceeds. 2. If the faftor
overlh p the neat proceeds, enter Voyage inward Dr to
Sundries viz, to outward for the neat proceeds,
and to Bailor my accotnpt-current. for the reft. 3. If he
underfhip the neat proceeds, enter Sundries (viz. Voyage
inward, for its value, and B. rny accompt current,
for the reft) Drs to Voyage outward. June 18-
6. If the firft advice be, whether from the fadtor or
any body elfe. That the (hip and cargo is loft at fea,
there will be a!fo three varieties. 1. If the goods loft
were not infured, enter Profit and Lofs Dr to Voyage,
for the whole value. 2. If the goods loft were all infu¬
red, charge the Jnfurer, or Cajh, if you get prefent pay¬
ment, Dr to Voyage. 3 If part of the goods only were
infured, make Sundries (viz. the Infurer, or Cajh. for
the value infured and Profit and Lofs, for the reft) Drs
to Voyage, for the whole lofs.
I. § 2. The cafes of the Jecond advice.
Iti journalizing a fecond or third advice, refpeft muft
be h id'to the entry that was made upon the advice im¬
mediately preceeding ; fo whatever was then Dr, muft
be now made Cr. And therefore, fuppofing the firft or
former advice was, That the fadtor had received the goods,
but fold none of them, the entry to be made upon a fe
x:ond advice will be as in the cafes following
Cafe i. If the fecond advice be, That the goods for¬
merly received are now fold, in whole or in part, for
ready mon-y, enter A. B. my accompt.current Dr to
dittomy accompt of goods, for neat proceeds
2 If the fecond advice be, That goods received for-
meily are ow fold, in whole or in part, on time, enter
A B my accompt on time Dr to ditto my accompt of
goods, for neat proceeds.
3 If rhe fecond advice be, That goo
ved are now old, part for ready money, i
Sundries Drs to A. B. my accompt of goods, viz
A. B my accompt-current, for the money in his
hands.
A. B. my accompt on time, for the outftanding debts.
But if the former advice had been, That the faftor had
fold your goods on time, then, upon this fuppofition, the
advice that comes next, whether fecond or third, is jour¬
nalized as follows.
Cafe 1. If the next advice be, That the faftor has
new received payment of the debts outftanding, enter
A. B. my accompt current Dr to ditto my accompt on
time, for the fam received by him.
E E P I N G. (*B)
2. If the next advice be, That he has indeed received
payment of the debts, but was obliged to allow abate¬
ment, for inlack of goods, or for other reafons, enter
Sundries Drs \o A. B. my accompt on time, viz.
A. B. my accompt-current, for the fum received by
’ him,
Profit and Lofs, for the fum abated.
Prob. 3. K. L. DebtorCreditor*////>(/,
returns are made you by the jattor.
Returns are made \o goods or bills,
K. § 1. The cafes of returns in goods.
Cafe 1. If the factor (hip off, and confign goods to
yourielf, advifing you thereof by poft, before the arrival
of the (hip, enter Voyage from Dr to A. B. my
accompt.current, for coft and charges of the cargo, as
per favor’s invoice.
2. If the fadtor (hip off goods for yourfelf, of which
you have no advice, or of which you book no advice,
prior to the arrival of the (hip, enter
Goods received Dr to Sundries, viz.
To A B. my account-cur rent, for coft and charges.
To
1 here.
If your fadtor A. B at Leghorn (hip off goods not
to yourfelf, but by your order, to C D. your fadtor at
Lijbon, and advife you thereof by fend.ng you a copy of
the invoice, enter Voyage from Leghorn to Lijhon Dr to
A. B. my accompt current, for coft and
§2. The cafes of returns in bills.
Cafe 1. If you draw upon your fadtor, and receive
prefent money for the bill, enter Cajh Dr to A. B. my
accompt-current, for value of the bill
2. If you draw upon your fadtor, and give the remit¬
ter a day for payment ; or if you owe the remitter, and
give him the bill as payment; enter the Remitter Dr to
A. B my accompt-current, for the value of the bill
July iS.
3. If you draw upon your fadlor A. B. payable to
your fadlor C. D charge C. D my accompt-current Dr
to A. B. my accompt current, for value of the bill.
4. If your fadtor remit you a bill, for which you re¬
ceive prefent payment, enter Cajh Dr to A, B. my ac¬
compt current, for the value of the bill.
5. If your fadtor remit you a bill, payable at (ingle or
double ufance, or any other-rime after date or fight; up¬
on getting the bill accepted, enter Bills receivable Dr to
A. B. my accompt-current, for value of the bill. Sept. 30..
(B*) B O O K - K
6. If yoat fa&or B. by your order, remit a bill
to your faftor C. D. charge C. D. my aecompt-current
Dr to A. B. my accompt-current, for value of the bill.
2. In FACTORAGE.
Factorage comprehends three things: j. The re¬
ceipt of the employer's goods. 2. The difpofal of them,
3. Returns made for them.
Prob. 1. M. 'Dzbior and Cve&tor applied upon the re¬
ceipt of goods.
When you turn faftor, and hav« goods configned to
you by your employer ; upon receiving the goods, enter
Prob. .2. N. Debtor and Creditor applied in difpefng of
your employer's goods.
Cafe 1. When you fell all, or any part of your em¬
ployer’s goods, for ready money, enter Caflo 'Dr to A. B.
his accompt of goods, for the fum received. Aug. 17*
2. When you fell all, or any part of his goods, on
r.me, charge the Buyer Dr to A. B. his accompt of goods,
for the fum due. Aug. 23.
3. When you take all, or any part of his goods, to
youi felf at the current price ; or when you put off his
goods in barter, for others which you take to yourfelf;
enter Goods received Dr to A- B. his acco?upt of goods,
for their value.
4. When all your employer’s goods are difpofed of,
balance his accompt of gads ; that is, charge yf. B. his
accompt of goods Dr to Sundries, viz. to Cajh, for any
charges paid by you, not yet booked ; or to the perfon
or perfons to whom they are due, if not yet paid ; and
to Profit and Lofs, for your commiflion ; and to A. B.
his accompt on time, for the outllanding debts, if any ;
and to A. B. his accompt-current, for the employer’s
ready money in your hands. Aug. 23.
5. When you receive payment of the outftanding debts,
enter as in proper trade, viz. Cafh Dr to the Buyers ;
but if you be obliged to make abatement, for defedt in
weight or meafure, or bad markets, &c. enter
Sundries Drs to the Buyer, viz.
Cafh, for the fum received,
A. B. his accompt-current, for the fum abated.
6. When you receive payment of a debt on your em¬
ployer’s account, you mud not only give the buyer or
payer credit as directed above, but at the fame time
charge A. B. his accompt on time Dr to ditto his accompt-
current, for the whole fum of the debt, whether any a-
batement be allowed or not.
Prob. 3. O. P. Debtor and
make returns to ■
I N G.
SfSSwfSa
applied when you
Returns are made either \n goods or bills,
O. § 1, The cafes of returns in goods.
Cafe 1. When you buy up goods for ready money,
and fliip them off for your employer, enter
A. B. his accompt-current Dr to Sundries, viz.
To Cajh, for prime cod, and charges paid,
Ta Profit and Lofs, for your commiflion.
2. When you buy goods on time, and ftiip them off
for your employer, enter
A. B. his accompt-current Dr to Sundries, viz.
To Sellers, for prime cod of the goods,
To Caflo, for charges, as cuflom, infuranee, <bc.
To Profit and Lofs, for your commiflion.
3. When you take goods of your own, and valuing
them at the current price, Ihip them off for your eui*
A. B his accompt-current Dr to Sundries, viz.
To Goods fent off, for their value,
P. § 2. The cafes of returns in bills.
Cafe 1. When your employer draws a bill on you,
which you accept and pay on fight, enter A. B. his ac~
compt-current Dr to Cajh, for value of the bill.
2. When your employer draws a bill on you, payable
at 1 or 2 ufance, enter A. B his accompt-current Dr
to Bilh payable, for value of the bill. Sept. 3.
3. When you draw upon .your employer, enter Cash,
if you receive prefent money for the bill ; or, if not,
the Remitter Dr to A. B. his accompt-current, for value
of the bill. May 31.
4. When you remit a bill to your employer, for which
you pay ready money, enter A. B. his accompt-current
Dr to Cash, for value of the bill. Sept. 8.
5. When you remit a bill to your employer, which you
either procure on time, or receive in payment of a debt
due to you by the drawer, enter A. B. his accompt-cur¬
rent Dr to the Drawer, for value of the bill.
6. When
B O O K - K
6. When your employer remits a bJl to you, enter
if you receive prefent payment ; or, if not, Z?///s
receivable, Dr to A, B. his acctmpt current, for value
of the bill.
Note i. When you pay the bill mentioned in cafe 2.
enter Bills payable Dr 10 Cash. Sept. 10.
Note 2 Charge A. B. his accompt carrent Dr to
Zssh, for all charges you pay in making returns, fuch
aspoftage.
Note 3. Having now fhewn how to keep faftory-ac-
compts in your own books, along with your other bufi-
nefs, it will not be improper to obferve, that thefe
I
G.
(*C)
naged and carried on by a truffee, in the name, and for
the account of the partners ; that is, when a joint ftock,
made up by two or more merchants, is depoiited in the
hands of one perfon, to be employed by him in a way of
commerce, according to inftrudtions.
Merchants, upon entering into partnership, generally
chufe one of their own number, to whom they commit
the management of their company-concerns ; who, on
account of his being partner, as well as manager or doer
for the company, is called partner-triijlee ; and lliares
of gains and Ioffes that happen, according to his ftiare of
the dock ; and muff allow his proportion of all charges.
compts may alfo be kept, by help of the Sales book, even of his own commiflion, fince, in quality of truftee,
without bringing any thing to 'jour Ledger, or other he ferves himfelf as partner equally with the reft,
books, except the accompt current, thus: Turn the The accompts of the company’s affairs may be kept by
Sales-book into a folio- form ; and when you receive the the truftee in his own books, along with the accompts of
eonligned goods, enter them on the Dr fide, mentioning his own private bufinefs ; or they may be kept in fepa-
their quantity, mark, and number, with the charges you rate books allotted for that purpofe. The former is
pay; to which fide alfo carry all after charges, abate*
ments made to buyers, and your own comimflion. On
the Cr fide, enter the fales, mentioning the names of
the buyers on time; and, as they pay, mark the article
as paid on the margin; or, which will do juft as well,
never draw out the fums to the money columns, till you
receive payment. In your Ledger, give A. B. his ac
compt cur'ent credit for all the mon?y you receive for his
goods, and make the fame accompt Dr for all the char¬
ges paid by you, abatements made to buyers, your own
commiffion, and returns made to your employer. But
though this method may now and then be ufed with
refped tofmall confignments; yet the conducing of large
concerns in faftory requires the ufe of all the fire books
mentioned at the beginning of this chapter.
Note 4. When you cannot difpofe of your employer’s
goods to advantage, and thereupon by his order fliip
them off to a fador of your own, in expedation of a
better market, the regular method in this cafe is, 1.
When you fhip off the goods, enter Veyage to for ac¬
count of your Employer, Dr to Cash, for charges paid
at (hipping. 2. When you have advice from your fador,
that he has received them, enter your Employer his ac¬
compt of goods in the hands of fattor, or rather your
Employer his accompt of goods at fuch a place, Dr to Voy¬
age thither, for charges of the faid voyage. 3. When
you have advice that he has fold them, c. g. for ready
money, enter your Employer his accompt current at 
Dr to ditto his accompt of goods at , for neat pro¬
ceeds. The entry in any other cafe will be obvious to
one who underftands proper trade and faaorage, as ex¬
plained above.. But though this be the regular method,
yet in realpradice, the beft way, in our opinion, is, when
you ftnp the goods, to charge the employer'
for that purpofe. The" former L
common pradice, in matters of fmall concern, or (hort
adventures ; the latter is ufed by fixed companies, whofe
trade is confiderabie, or who have the profped of deal¬
ing long that way.
Hence it is obvious, that each partner will have occa-
fion to keep an accompt in his own books, of every thing
he gives in and receives from the company, and alfo of
what he owes to the company, or they to him: and, on
the other hand, it will be the bufinefs of the truftee, not
only «o keep clear accompts with the perfons he deals
with, in buying up and difpofing of goods for the com¬
pany ; but he rauft alfo keep diftind accomprs, with re-
fped to the partners, Ihewing what ftiare each of them
gives in, and what part of neat proceeds is due to them,
and likewife what every one of them owes to the com¬
pany, or the company to them. Thefe things premifed,
1. We (hall (hew how a partner keeps the accompts
which he has occafion for.
2. The way how a truftee keeps the accompts of the
company’s affairs in his own books.
3. The manner of keeping company-accompts in books,
apart, that contain nothing elfe.
I. Honss a partner keeps the accompts he has occafton for.
The Ledger-accompts deferibed.
A merchant concerned as partner in a company, muff
keep the two Ledger-accompts following ; in which ob¬
ferve, that A. B. reprefents the truftee’s name.
1. A. B. my accompt in company. This accompt is
Dr for your inputs, and proportion of all charges, and
Cr for your (hare of neat proceeds.
2. A. B. my accompt proper. This is a perfonal ac-
, compt, being charged and difeharged exadly as fuch,
goods (as they ftand in your Ledger) Dr to Cash^foTdkzx- uufte^ ^ paymentS betwixt you and the
ges at (hipping, making no more entries, rill you receive at,,- ■, j t>
   - -•—*»AS
accompt current at
your fador.
3- In PARTNERSHIP.
Paxtnsits h rp is that branch of trade which is 1
remly. Some chufe to exprefs it thus: Goods in the hands
or particularly. Broad cloth in the hands of
bc a Pca-a<ITent«re, you may ufe the title,
A. B, my atcount of Voyage to  . If the company
be
f*C) B O O K - K
be fixed, tbe title mayfbe taken from the commodity they
ded in, zs Accompt in Wine-company, accompt in Tohac-
co-company Sec ; or from the place they trade to, as
Acc'mpt in Eaji-Inaia company, See.
RT‘te Inftead of A. B. my dccompt proper, fome
Wi ite 4 B. my accompt-current ; fome too write A B.
bis accosupt cun ent ; and others title this accompt (im¬
ply by the tru(fee’s name. But though the titles of ac-
compts are in fome fort arbitrary, or as the merchant
plea(es , yet if is fuitable or conguious, that they carry
in them fome badge of diftindtion, (hewing to what clafs
of accompts they belong.
We now proceed to a pirticular application of Dr and
Cr in the cafes that moft commonly occur on this head,
which (hall be confined to the two problems following.
Prob. i. Debtor and Creditor applied, <when you
give in your /bare of flock to the Irujlee.
Cafe i. If you give in jud your own part; and that
either, i. In money, or in goods prefently bought tor
ready money ; or, 2. In goods prefently bought on time;
or, 3. In goods already entered in your books, enter
A. B. my accompt in company Dr
To Cajh, if you give in money, or pay for goods,
oa. 4.
To Seller, if you buy goods on time,
To Goods proper, it the goods were formerly your
own.
2. If you find both your own part and the trudee’s,
enter Sundries (vz. A. B. my accompt in company, for
your own part, and A. B. my accompt proper, for his
part) Drs..
To Cash, if you give in money, or pay for goods,
To Seller, if you buy the goods on time,
To Goods proper, if you give in goods formerly your
own, Oa. 9.
g. If the trudee provide both your part and his own,
enter A. B. my accompt in company Dr to ditto my accompt
proper. And when you pay him, charge A. B. my ac¬
compt proper Dr to Cash. But if he demand intered,
make Sundries (viz. A. B, my accompt proper, for the debi,
and Profit and Lofs, for the intered) Drs to Cash.
Not: 1. There imv be feveral other varieties in csfe i. befides thofe men¬
tioned; as, 1. Wlien'you give in part money,, part goods prefently bought on
thne. a. when you give part in money, part goods of your own. 3. When
you give in goods, part bought on time, part your own'. 4 When you give
in p :rt money, part goods bought on time, part goods of your own. In all
Which cafes, enter A. R. my acco n t in company Ur to Sundries, as follows.
Var etv r F , 0 ^’ ,0r the fUnn Eiven in>
‘ L Co saler, for value of the goods bought.
J r ro Cajh, for the fum given in,
\JVa Goods trover, for their value.
3-
1.
LTo G
le of the goods bought,
   for their value.
Note a. The like varieties may be fupppfed in cafe :
which, the bell method is, firft to enter A. B. my accomVi n, com
Sundries, as in tile farmer nore, for the whole value ot the money,
given in; and then, in another entry, charge A. B. my accompt proper Dr to
dins mv treomft in company, for the truftee’s nart. And when the truliee
 Sspart, ——0-/1.TW— a     o, ..
journalizhng of
  r__ _.._er Cift) Dr to A. B. my accompt proper, 0.1. 1  
/ you alfo interell, make Cajh Dr to Sundries, <vtz. to A. B. my accompt
proper, rbr the debt, and ta Profit and Lofs, tax the intereft.
Prob 2. R. Debtor Creditor when goods
in company are difpofed of, and you receive all or
part of your Jhareof neat proceeds.
Cafe 1. 1/ you have advice of Tales, and at the Tame
E E P I N G.
time receive your (hare of real proceeds ; which may he
either in money, bills, or goods ; enter Cajh, Bills re¬
ceivable, or Goods received. Dr to A B my accompt in
company, for value received, Oa. 9. and 20.
2- If you have only advice of Tales on time, without
receiving any thing, enter B. my accompt proper Dr
to ditto my accompt in company, for your (hare of neat
proceeds due to you ; and when you receive payment,
charge Cajh, Bills receivable, or Goods, Dr to A. B,
my accompt proper, for value,received But if the tru-
ftees had been obliged to allow abatement to the buyers,
or had any of the debts outdandmg proved bad, then, m
this cafe, if the accompt in company be yet open, enter
Sundries {viz. Cajh. Bill receivable, Cc. tor the fum re¬
ceived, and, A. B my accompt in company, for your
(hare of the Turn abated or lolt) Drs to ^ B my ac¬
compt proper. If the accompt in company be balanced,
charge Profit and Lojs Dr for your (hare ot the abate¬
ment, or of the lofs.
3 If the goods are fold, part for ready money, part
on time, and thereupon you receive your (bare of money
received, tmer Sundries {viz Cajh, for the (um you re¬
ceive, and A. B. my occompt proper, for your (hare of
Tales on time) Drs to A B. my accompt in company.
4 If part of the goods only are (old, you mayputoff
the booking of it till further advice; uniefsit be for ready
money, of which youjmmediately receive your (hare : m
which cafe, enter Cajh Dr to A.B. my accompt in com¬
pany, for the fum you receive.
5. If you withdraw your (hare of (lock, or any part
of it, enter Cajh, or Goods withdrawn. Dr to A. B.
my accompt in company, for the fum or value withdrawn.
6. If after the goods are difpofed of, you take up only
your (hare of neat gain, continuing your (hare of ((ock as
a fund for a new adventure, charge Cash Dr to ProJU
and Lofs, for the fum received, and let the accompt in
company (land as it is.
N. B. This is the ordinary cafe in fixed companies.
note 1. There may be other varieties in Cafes I. & 2. befides thofe men¬
tioned, -viz. 1. You may receive, as your Ih.ire of neat proceeds, part money,
part bill; and then Sundries are Dr.s, -viz. Cafh, and Bills receivable. OH. 9.
2. You may receive part money, part goods; and then the Drs are, Cajh, and
Goods received. 0<J. 20. 3. You may receive part bill, part goods; and then
the Drs are, Bills receivable, and Goods received. 4. You may receive part
money, part bill, part goods; and then there will be three Drs, viz. Cafbi
Bills receivable, and Goods received.
N. B. if the perfon on whom you get the bill have an accompt in your Led-
ger, make him Dr, and not Bill's receivable.
2. How a trujlee keeps the company's- acoompts in his own
books.
The Ledger-acempts deferibed.
A Truftee who keeps the company’s accompts in his
own books, has occafion for the three Ledger-accompts-
following, in which 2?. reprefent-your partner’s name.
I . Goods in company with A. B. or Sales in compa¬
ny with A. B. or particulaily Sugar in company with
A. B. This accompt is debited for the value of the goods
brought into company, for all charges, and your com-
miffion: it is credited as you difpofe of the goods, in the
fame manner as if the goods were your own.
2. A. B. his accompt in company. This is credited
for your partner’s imputs, his (hare of charges, and pro¬
portion of neat gain at clofe; it is debited for his (hare of
neat
BOO
KEEPING.
(D*)
neat proceeds, and his proportton of lofs, if any, when
the company-acconripts are finifhed.
3. A. D. his accompt proper. This is a perfonal
accompt, which is debited and credited for the mutual
debts contradted and payments made betwixt you and
partners.
Note 1. If the company deal in foreign trade, you who
manage as truftee will have occafion for other accompts,
viz. Voyage in company, Faftor our accompt current, &c.
all which are ufed the fame way as their parallels in
proper foreign trade.
Note 2. As you mull keep an accetnpt in company,
and za accompt proper, for each partner; fo, if thefe be
compared with the accompts of the like name kept by the
partners, they will be found exadly the' reverfe of one
another; that is, the Dr fide of the accompts kept by
you will be the fame with the Cr fide of thofe kept by
partners ; and on the other hand, the Cr fide of the for¬
mer will be exactly the Dr (ide of the latter.
Note 3. Indead of the title ^. 5- his accompt pro¬
per, a great many ufe A. B. his accompt current. And
it mull be owned the merchant is at liberty to do in this
as he inclines : it comes to the fame thing in the ilfue,
only the one title is more dillinftive than the other.
Prob. 1. S. Dr and Cr applied, ’whengoods are brought
into company.
Cafe 1. If the goods are bought, (which is either from
you the truflee, or from a partner, or from a neutral
perfon,) enter twice ; viz. ijl. Goods in company Dr
ToGoods proper, if bought of yourfelf^ 1 for value of
To Partner's accoonpt proper, if of a partner, C the goods
To Cash, or Seller, if of a neutral perfon, j bought.
idly. Charge each partner ^// accompt-proper Dr to
ditto his accompt in company, for it is part of the purchafe
Oft. 26. Nov 22.
Note. When yon pay a neutral perfon for goods bought on time, charge the
faid Perfon Dr to Calh ; ami there is no lecond   " ” -   " " '
if he allow you d.fcount or abatement, enter t
Sundries, viz. to Ca/b, for the fum pai
difcounted or abated, a. Each partne:      , _
compt-proper, for his (hare of the fum difcounted or abated.
Cafe 2. If each partner bring in juft his own part of
goods to company, enter once ; viz.
Goods in company Dr to Sundries, viz.
To Goods proper, for value of your (hare,
To each Partner his accompts in company, for va¬
lue of theirftiares.
Note r. This is (horter than to enter as if the goods were bought, though
that way would alfo be right, and prove the
Note 1. Enteralfo as above, if the partners gi
’ inbuyins
m inltantly b<
• ' ---.j--- •iVo'V-y15-DBut
 ... Goods in company, for the fum
accompt in company Dr to ditto bis ac-
effea.
:h his own part in money,
ing, ifupon buyingof the
he price, only Cajh, and
ed front the partners, cn-
y.ou buy the goods, charge Goods in company Dr to Cajb, for their value; and
there is no fecond entry.
Cafe 3. If you or partner pay charges on goods brought
into company, as carriage, infurance, &c. this augments
the coft, and mull be entered as the coft, namely, \Ji,
■Goods in company Dr
To Cush, if paid by you. Oft. 25. Nov j.
To Partner, his accompt proper, if paid by him.
2dly, 'F.o.c'ts 'pzrtntx his accompt-proper Dr to ditto bis
eccompt in company, for his (hare of the,faid charges.
Prob. 2. T. Debtor Creditor applied, wohen goods
in comp assy are difpofed of.
Cafe 1. If goods in company are fold, (which is either
to you the truftee, or to a partner, or to a neutral per¬
fon,) a double entry is necefl’ary ; viz. \fl.
Goods proper, if fold to yourfeif,
Partner's accompt-proper, if to him on time, Dr
Cash, or Buyer, if to a neutral perfon, 3
To Goods in company, for their value in the fale.
zdly, Each partner his accompt in compam Dr to ditto
his accompt proper, for his (hare of the fale. Ofi. 29.
Nov. 1. and 30. Dec. 2. 18. and 28.
Note 1. The entries are the fame whenyoureceivelreightfor a (hip incom¬
pany. Otl. 2;. Dec. 27.
Note 2. When you receive payment for goods in company formerly fold to
a neutral perfon, charge C ’Jb Dr to the Buyer ; and there is no fecond entry.
Nov. 1. Dec. I 3. But if you al low difeount or abatement to the buyers, a
double entry is necelfary: namely, \Jt, Sundries {viz. Calh, for the fum re¬
ceived, znA Goods in company, for the fum difeounted or abated) Drs to the
Buyer ; idly. Each partner his accompt proper Dr to ditto his accompt in compa-
yNote 3. If goods in company be damaged, deftroyed, or loft, enter Sun¬
dries (viz. each partner bis accompt proper, for their rc-fpeftivc (hares of the
damage or lofs, and Profit and Lofs, for your own (hare) Drs to Goods in com¬
pany.
Cafe 2. If goods in company are difpofed of in barter,
for other goods of the fame value brought into it, charge
Goods in company received Dr to Goods in company deli¬
vered ; and there is no fecond entry. Dec 7.
Note 1. If the goods to be received and delivered be of
different values, a double entry will be neceffary: As,
fuppofe a truftee engaged in company with A. B. each 4,
(hould deliver 80/. worth oF. broad cloth, in company,
for tobacco to the value of 100 /. ; in this cafe he enters
twice: \Jl, Tobacco in companyDr to Sundries, viz. to
Broad cloth in company, 80/. and to Caflo, or Dealer,
20 l.; 2dly, A. B. his accompt proper Dr to ditto his ac¬
compt in company, 10/. for his (hare of the money now
laid, out or due to Dealer. Again, invert the fuppofition,
and admit, that he delivers broad cloath in company to
the value of 100 /. and receives 80 / worth of tobacco,
the reft in money, or due by his dealer; in this cafe he
enters alfo twice: ijl, Sundries {viz. Tobacco in compa¬
ny, 80 l. and Gash, or Dealer, 20 l.) Drs to Broad
cloth in company ; 2dly, A. B. his accompt in company
Dr to ditto his accompt proper, 10 /. his part of money
received, or due by Dealer.
Note 2. If you barter goods in company, for others
which you take to yourfeif, enteralfo twice: \Jl, Goods
proper received Dr to Goods in company delivered ; zdly.
Each partner’s accompt in company Dr to ditto bis accompt
proper, for his part of fale. In like manner, if you bar¬
ter goods of your own, for others which you bring into
company, enter twice: viz. \Jl, Goods in company re¬
ceived Dr to Goods proper delivered; 2dly, Each partner
his accompt proper Dr to ditto his accompt in company,
for his part of purchafe.
Cafe 3. If you or partner withdraw juft your or his
exadt part of goods in company remaining unfold, enter
once, viz.
Goods proper, if withdrawn by you, 7 „
Partner's accovipt in company, if by him, 3 *
To Goods in company, for their value in company.
Dec. 24.
Note
(*D)
BOO
u inuTt acc
When ?■
>r his exaft
artner withdraw more or lefs than yot
it the goods fold, and enter as in cjfi i.
  . , is in company are all fold, or part fold, and tlie reft with¬
drawn, fo that all are difpofed of, make a double Journal entry; viz. ijl,
Goods in company Dr to Sundries, viz. to Cajio, or Charges of merchandize,
for any charges not yet booked, fuel) as cellar-rent, &c. and to Profit and
J.ofs for your own eommiffton, or for intereft of money advanced by you.
zdly. Each partner his accompt-froper Dr to ditto his accompt in company, tor
his part of the whole. Nov. I.
N. B. This is al(b to be done, if it be a voyage in company.
Prob. 3. U. Debtor and Creditor applied in payments
betwixt trujlee and partners.
Cafe 1. If you 'he truftee receive payment of partner
in money, charge Dr to partner bis accompt-prapsr,
for the fum received. 0(1. 27. Nev. 25.
2. If partner give you his bill on E. F. charge Cajb,
cr Bills receivable, or E. F. Dr to partner bis accompt
proper, for value of the bill.
3. If you draw on partner, charge Cash, or E. F.
viz. the man you deliver the bill to, Dr to partner his
accompt pooper, for value of the bill.
4. If you pay partner in money, charge partner
compt-proper Dr to Cash, for the fum paid. Nov. 4.
and 17.
5. If you give partner your bill on E. F. charge part¬
ner his accompt proper Dr to E. F. for value of the bill.
6. If partner draw on you, charge partner bis accompt
I N G.
tive (hares; and to Cajh, for charges, ifpaidbyyou, ortopartner/./xrtzv/vnV-
proper. if paid by him, zdly. Each partner bis accompt-propcr Dr to ditto his
accompt in company, for his part of charges.
Note s.. But if each partner bring in fuch goods as they have proper for the
intended voyage, witliout regard to their juft proportions, being refolved to
uljutt that matter with money, the belt way is, to conftder the goods as
'Voyage _...
To each partni
accordingly; ’
......     lu wwrics, V1z.
accompt-proper, for value of the goods broughtinby
To Goods proper, for value of thofe given in by you:
To Calh, for charges, if paid by you,’
To partner bis accompt proper, if by him.
idly Each partner his accompt-proper Dr to ditto
their refpeaive lhares of the cargo and charges, ;
goods given in by them. Nov. is.
Cafe 3. If you or partner commiffion your or his fac¬
tor, to (hip off goods to company’s fadtor ; upon recei¬
ving the invoice, enter twice ; if,
Voyage in company to Dr
CFafior my accompt-current, if commifiion-
To < edbyyou.
(^Partner his accompt-proper, if by him.
2dly, Each partner his accompt-proper Dr to ditto his ac¬
compt in company, for his part of the whole.
Prob. j. X. Debtor and Creditor applied, upon advice
from company's fattor.
Cafe 1. If you receive per advice from fadtor the ac-
proper Dr to Cash, if you pay at fight; if not, to Bills comptof^les, enter twice; viz. ift, FaCor our accompt.
payable.
7. If, in adjufting fhares in company, one partner pay
into another, charge partner receiver his accompt proper
Dr to partner payer his accompt proper, for the fum.
Ncv. 27. and 25.
N. B. The entry is the fame, if you draw a bill upon
one partner payable to another.
current Dr to Voyage in company, for the amount of neat
proceeds. 2dly, Each partner his accompt in company
Dr to ditto his accompt-proper, for his (hare of the whole.
Cafe 2. If fadlor in Jamaica advife you, that becaufe
he could not difpofe of the goods to advantage, he has,
according to orders, (hipped them off to your fadtor at
Carolina, enter twice ; namely, if. Voyage in company
ic paiiuci uityduic iu auuujci. ^ .. ^ 0 ' . ' . ^ ^ '
8. If partner make payment to E. F. of a debt due to Cfroltna Dr « Sundries, v,z. to Voyage m company
. 1 . 1 ^ . tn t/rm/itra. rnr vame m the rarom mitu/arn ann rn F/in-
by the company, charge is. E. Dr to partner i/V
proper. Nov. 25.
to Jamaica, for value of the cargo outward, and to Fac¬
tor at Jamaica our accompt-current, for new charges paid
by him. 2dly, Each partner his accompt-proper. Dr to
Prob. 4. V, Debtor and Creditor applied, when the ditto his accompt in company, for bis fdmeof nem charges.
cottipany fend goods t» fea. Cafe 3. If the cargo outward be loft at fea, there are
Cafe 1. If the goods fent to fea have been formerly three varieties. 1. If none of the goods be infured, enter
brought into company, and Hand already entered in the Sundries {viz. eaFo partner his accompt in company, for
books, upon (hipping them off make a double entry; if, his part of the lofs, and Proft and Lofs, for your own
Voyage in company to Dr to Sundries, viz. part) Drs to Voyage in company ; and no fecond entry.
To Goods in company, for their value, 2. If the goods be all infured, enter twice; viz. if.
To Cajh, for charges, .as cuftom, infurance, fee. Charge the Infurers, or it you get prefent payment,
2dly, Each partner his accompt-prsper Dr to ditto his Dr to Voyage in company. 2dly, Charge each partner
accompt in company, for his (hare of charges only his accotupt in company Dr to ditto his accompt-proper.
_ , „ , ie Voyagsis charged Dr, not to Cajh, I
:e partner hh accompt-proper.
Cafe 2. If the goods fent to fea are prefeotly bought,
(which is either from you, from a partner, or from a neu¬
tral pe rfon), enter alfo twice; namely, if.
Voyage in company to Dr to Sundries, viz.
C Goods proper, if bought of you,
To < Partner his accompt-proper, ifofapartner,
C.CaJh, or Seller, if of a neutral perfon ;
And
C Cafh, for charges, if paid by you,
\ Partner his accompt-proper, if by him.
acl/pj'Each partner his accampt-proper Dr to ditto his ac¬
compt in company, for his part of the whole.
Note 1. If each partner find juft his own part of goods fent to fca, you may
eater thus: ijl. Voyage in company to TH lo Sundries,viz. 'To Goods pro¬
per, for your ihare; to each partner bis accompt in company, for their, refpec-
for his (hare of the fum received from, or due by the In¬
furers. 3. If only part of the goods be infured, enter
alfo twice ; if. Sundries f viz. Infurers, or Cafh, for
the value infured ; each partner his accompt in company,.
for his (hare of the lofs ; and Profit and Lofs, for your
oWn (hare) Drs to Voyage in company. 2dly. Each part¬
ner his accompt in company Dr to ditto- his accompt-pro¬
per, for his (hare of the fum received from, or due by the
infurers.
Prob. 6. Y. Debtor and Creditor applied, when returns
are made by fattor.
Cafe 1. If you receive returns in goods, enter twice;
namely, if, goods in company received Dr to Sundries,
viz, toFaftor our accompt-current, 01 to Voyage in com¬
pany r
B O O K - K
pany, if not yetdifcharged, for value of goods; andtoCa/^,
for charges here, if paid by you, or to partner his accompt-
proper, if by him). 2dly, TLzdxya.rvazv his accompt proper
Dr to ditto his accompt io company, for his fhare of faid
charges.
Cafe 2. If you have return in bill?, enter once; namely,
Cash, if remitted to you, and paid at fight, ^
Bills receivable, if remitted to you at ufance, v Dr
Partner his accotnpt proper, if remitted to him, j
To Faftor our accompt current, for value of the bill.
Cafe 3. If you or partner remit a bill to the fadtor,
enter once, viz. Fatter our accompt current Dr
To Cash, or the Drainer, if remitted by you, ? for value
To Partner his accotnpt proper, if by him, 3 of the bill.
Prob. 7. Z. Debtor Creditor applied in admitting
a new partner.
The entries to be made in admitting a new partner not
being reducible to dirtindt cafes, we (hall explain the
matter by a particular example. Suppofe then yourfelf,
as truftee, already in company with one partner A. each
one half, for 300 /. and that you agree with B. to ad¬
mit him as a third partner, upon his paying in 100/. as
his fhare of flock ; upon this fuppofition, the entries
to be made are as follows.
ijl. You may either let the accompt of Goods in com¬
pany ftand as it is, till the goods are fold, or balance it,
by charging Goods in company with A. and B. Dr to
Goods in company with A.
idly. Charge A. his accompt in company Dr to ditto
his accompt-proper, 50 /. for his one half ofthefale to B.
idly, If B. presently pay in his fhare of flock, there
are three varieties. 1/?, If he pay the whole to you,
charge Cafh Dr to B. his accompt in company, 100 /.
idly. If he pay the whole to A. charge A. his accompt
proper Dr to B. his accompt in company, 100. /. ^dly.
If he pay one half to you, and the other to A. charge
Sundries {viz. Cafh, 50 /. paid in to you, and A. his
accompt proper, 50 /. paid to him) Drs to B. his ac¬
compt in company.
qthly, If B. do not pay in his fhare of flock prefently,
then charge B. his accompt proper Dr to ditto his ac¬
compt in company, too /•; and when he pays, difcharge
his accompt-proper, as above.
III. Of the Ledger.
The Ledger is the principal book, wherein all the fe-
veral articles of each particular accompt, that lie fcat-
tered in the other books according to their dates, are
colledled and placed together, in fpaces allotted for them,
in fuch manner, that the oppoftte parts of every accompt
are fet diredlly fronting one another, on oppofite fides,of
the fame folio.
The Ledger is the chief or principal book of accompts,
as being that which immediately anfwers the end of book¬
keeping. For, as has been already obferved, the Jour¬
nal is only preparatory or introdudlory to the Ledger ;
and the Wafle-book contains only the matter of accompts,
without either the form or order ; whereas the Ledger
has all the perfeftiort of form and order aimed at in book¬
keeping, affording a ready anfwer to all the demands of
E E P I N G. (£*)
the inquifitive merchant; and is therefore juflly efleemed
the principal book of the three- It is called the Ledger,
(an Italian word that fignifies art or dexterity), becaufe
in it the artificial part of book keeping chiefly appears.
The Ledger, in oppofition to the fcattered order of
things in the Wafle-book, has all the particular articles
of each accompt colledted and placed together; and that
in fuch a manner, as to have the oppofite articles fepa-
rated, and fet fronting one another on oppofite fides
of the fame folio. Thus, the oppofite articles of the
Cafh-accompt are, the fums of money received, and the
fums laid out ; which accordingly ftand, the former on
the Dr fide, and the latter on the Cr fide of the fame
folio. Again, in an accompt of goods, the prime coft
and charges go to the Dr fide, and the fales to the Cr
fide ; by comparing of which, appears the gain or lofs ::
and fo in other accompts.
The Ledger folios are divided into fpaces, for con¬
taining the accompts ; on the head of which are written
the titles of the accompts, marked Dr on the left-hand
page, and Cr on the right : Below which ftand the ar¬
ticles, with the word To prefixed to the Dr fide, and the
word By on the Cr fide. Upon the margin are recorded’
the dates of the articles, in columns allotted for that pur-
pofe. The money-columns are the fame as in the other
books. Before them ftands the folio-column, which con¬
tains figures direifting to the folio where the correfpon-
dent Ledger-entry of each article is made; for every
thing is twice entered in the Ledger, viz. on the Dr
fide of one accompt, and again upon the Cr fide of fome
other accompt; fo that thefe figures mutually refer from
the one to the other, and are of ufe in examining the
Ledger.
For the ready finding any accompt in the Ledger, it
has an alphabet, or index, wherein are written the titles
of all accompts, with the number of the folios where they
ftand.
Note. If the Ledger-accompts be numbered, 1, 2, 3,
fee. according to their order ; thefe numbers may be in¬
ferred in the Folio-column and Index, and ufed inftead
of the folio figures. We have numbered the accompts
of the following Ledger, but have not made this ufe of
them ; our defign being only to refer, by means of them,,
to the Ledger-accompts as occafion requires.
H<nu the Ledger is filled up from the Journal.
To tranfport immediately from the Wafte-bookto the
Ledger, would, as has been formerly obferved, be a com¬
plex talk, and require too great a meafure of thought
and attention ; but the former being firft reduced to a
Jonrnal, the transferring from it to the Ledger becomes
eafy, and may be performed by the following
R U L E S.
1. Turk to the Index, and fee whether the debtor of
the Journal poft to be tranfported be written there: If it
be not, infert it under its proper letter, with the number
of the folio to which it is to be carried.
2. Upon the folio, and in the head of the fpace allot¬
ted for the accompt, write the title in a large text-lettwr
fas
(*E) B O O K - K
for ornament, making \x. Dr on the left fide of the folio,
and Cr on the right.
3. Record the date in the columns on the margin of
the Dr fide, and write the Cr with the word To pre¬
fixed to it, immediately below the title, or other articles
formerly ported ; and complete the entry in one line, by
giving a fiiort hint of the nature and terms of the tranf-
adtion, carrying the fum to the money-columns; and in-
fert the quantity, if it be an accompt of goods, 6'c. in
the inner columns, and the referring figure in the folio-
column.
4. Turn next to the creditor of the Journal port, and
proceed in the fame manner with it, both in the Index
and Ledger; with this difference only, that the entry is
to be made upon the Cr fide, and the word By prefixed
to it.
5. The port being thus entered in the Ledger, return
to the Journal, and, on the margin, mark the folios of
the accompts, writing the folio of the Dr above, and the
folio of the Cr below, a fmall line drawn between them,
thus, 4. Thefe marginal numbers in the Journal are a
kind of Index to the Ledger, and are of ufe in examining
the books, and on other occafions.
6. In opening the accompts in the Ledger, follow the
order of the Journal ; that is, beginning with the firft
Journal port, allow the firrt fpace in the Ledger for the
Dr of it, the next for the Cr, the third for the Dr of the
following port, if it be not the fame with fome of thofe
already opened ; and fo on till the whole Jonrnal be
iranfported.
The above fix rules are formed for fimple ports, where
there is but one Dr and one Cr; but may eafily be ap¬
plied to complex ones: e.g. In ports where only one of
the terms is complex, the fimple term is entered Dr to,
or Cr by Sundries, or Sundry-accompts, referring to the
Journal for particulars. And the fingle D'S or Crs of
the complex term, are each of them, in their refpeftive
accompts, entered Dr to, or Cr by the fimplc term. A-
gain, in ports where both terms are complex, each parti¬
cular Dr and Cr are entered Dr to, or Cr by, Sundry ac¬
compts, with a reference to the jonrnal, as before. And
here obferve, that an article of Sundry-accompts has no
referring figure in the folio-column, becaufe it refers to
feveral accompts: But this defeft is fupplied by the mar¬
ginal numbers of the Journal, which mart ftill be con-
fulted before the particulars of the indefinite article can be
be known.
How to tranfpofe an account from one folio to
another.
When the fpace allotted for an accompt proves too
little . that is, when either the Dr or Cr fide, or both,
are fo charged and filled with articles, that they can hold
no more ; the accompt mull be tranfpofed to a new fpace;
Which may be done by one or other of the methods fol¬
lowing.
1. In all accompts that have inner columns for the
quantities, fuch as Accompt of goods, &c. add up both
ft E P I N G.
the Dr and Cr fides, and charge the new accompt Dr to the
old, for the total of the Dr fide; and make the ,p]d ac¬
compt Dr to the new, for the total of the Cr fide. Thus
the old accompt will be evened ; that is, the fums and
quantities on both fides will be equal; and the new ac¬
compt will exhibit the fame fums and quantities on its
Dr and Cr fides, that the old did, before it was tranf¬
pofed.
2. In acccmpts that have no inner columns, fuch as
Perfonal accompts, Cafti-accompt, Profit and Lafs,
where the difference betwixt the two fides is only confi-
dered, it is fufficient, after adding up both fides, as be¬
fore, to carry the balance or difference only to the new
accompt, by making it Dr to the old, for the faid ba¬
lance, if the Dr fide of the old be heavieft; but if the
Cr fide be heavieft, then charg* the old accompt Dr to
the new. See N° 1. and 61.
hote. The number of the folio on which the new ac¬
compt is opened, nmft be inferted in the Index, and alfo
in the folio-column of the old accompt; and again, the
folio-number of the old murt be written in the folio-co¬
lumn of the new ; that the accomptant may readily turn
from the one to the other, as occafion requires.
How the Books are examined.
An accomptant (hould be at all imaginable pains in
filling up the books, to make them exafLand correft,:
But as errors mu ft happen, the examination of the books
after they are written up becomes abfolutely neceffary.
1. The Wafte-book being the firft and fundamental
book, the only means left for difeovering errors in it, are,
a careful reading of it, and comparing it with the ac-
comptant’s memory, or the Book of letters, or Letters
of correfpondems, Bills, Invoices, ifrc-,. ; or perhaps fome
accident or circumftance may happen to bring things to
remembrance. And this, with carting up the fums of
money anew, is all that can be done.
2. In revifing the Journal, compare each port with the
Wafte-book, to fee if the fums of money be right, and
whether the narrative or reafon of the entry be juftly ex-
preffed. Next, Confider whether the true Dr and Cr
are affigned; and, after having thus narrowly examined
the ports, and corredted what happens to be wrong, re¬
turn to the Wafte-book, and, on the margin oppolite to
the revifed port, make a dafli with the pen, thus, /, to
fionify that the Journal has been compared with it, and
found right.
3. The Ledger is revifed or examined, by comparing
it with the Journal, in the manner following. Take the
Journal, and, beginning with the firft port, turn (as the
marginal numbers direfl) to the folio of the Ledger where
the Dr of the faid port ftands, and fee whether it be duly
entered: And, upon finding it right, return to the Jour¬
nal, and affix to the marginal number of the faid Dr a
dot or point, thus [.], to fliew that it has been examined.
Next, Turn to the folio where the Cr is ported, and,
upon finding it right, or after correfting it if wrong,
return to the Journal, and affix a dot to its referring
figure
B O O K - K E
figure in the margin, for the fame purpofe as before If
thert.be more Drs or Crs in the poll, proceed the fame
way with each of them. And thus go on with the next
poll, and after it with the third, 6^. till the whole Jour¬
nal and Ledger be compared.
As every thing is twice entered in the Ledger^ once
upon the Dr fide of one accompt, and again upon theCr
fide of fome other accompt; iris plain, that the total
fum of all the money on the Dr lides will be precifely
equal to the total fum of all upon the Cr fides : And there¬
fore the accomptant, after revifing the books, is next,
for further fatisfaftion, to add up the Dr fides of the
whole Ledger into one fum, and the Cr fides into an¬
other. If they agree, it is highly probable that all is
right; if they differ, fomething is unqueftionably wrong
This addition of the Dr andCr fides is, by merchants,
called the Trial-balanceand ought to be made, not
limply by taking the fum of every page, but by fumming
the Dr and Cr fides of every account feparately, and then
adding thefe on every page into one fum. By going to
work in this manner, you lofe no labour ; for when, you
come afterwards to ciofe the accompts, infteadof adding
their Dr and Cr fides anew, you take their fums from
the trial-balance.
If, after the revife is made, the totals of the Dr and
Cr fides agree, the accomptant may, without further
trial, conclude the books to be right. But if they differ,
his next ftep is to examine the Ledger by itfelf. Which
is done thus : Beginning with the firll accompt, compare
the firfl article on the Dr fide with its counter part (to
which the referring figure dire&s), and, upon finding
them right, or making them fo, affix a dot to the end
of the fum, or in the folio or month column of each of
.them, thus [kj, to fignifythat they have been compared^
Proceed in like manner with all the other articles on the
Dr fide, and next with thofe upon the Cr fide; and then
go onto a new accompt, and from it to the following-, till
the whole Ledger be finiffied. Here obferve, that, in pro-
fecutingthe examination, all the dotted articles you corner
to are to be omitted, as having been compared alreadys
The Ledger, being thus examined, if the corrections of the
errors found bring the fums of the Dr and Gr fides to a'ba-
lance, the books may now be prefumed right; but if not,
fomething is Hill wrong : And there is no way left to difco-
ver the miltake, but a more careful refearch of the books.
This revifing or examination is What merchants calf
Pricking of the "books ; and ftould hot be put off till the
Ledger is filled up, but performed weekly, and in due
order; that is, the Wafte-book ffiould be revifed, before
it be ported to the Journal; and the Jo irnal ought to-
be examined, before it be tranfported to the Ledger;
and the revifing of the Ledger finiffied, before the ba¬
lance is begun.
How. Errors are corrected.
In explaining the method of correcting errors, we {hall
join the Wafte-book and Journal together, becaufe the.
manner of correcting is the fame in both; ,and then (hew-
the way of correcting miftakes in the Ledger.
I Errors in the Wafte-book and Journal may be- re¬
duced to fix claffes, and corrected as follows.
E P I N G. 5&7
\ji. If the errors be the omiffion of a whole port, thef
way to correCt or fupply the defeCt is, to write it in a fe-
parate place by itfelf, with a reference to it from the
place where it ffiould have been. 2dly, If only a word
or two be wanting, they may be interlined or written up¬
on the margin, ^dly, If a whole’port be repeated or
twice written, it is corrected by cancelling one of them;
but the cancelling ought to be done inffuch a flight man¬
ner, that the original writing may rtill be legible and di-
ftinCt. A,thly, In like manner, if only a word or fentence-
be repeated, let one of them be flightly cancelled. $tkly.
If there be any wrong name, word, or figure, the belt'
way is, to let the wrong name, word, or figure, hand as
they are, but correCt the miftake by a note on the mar¬
gin or foot of the page, (slhly. If you commit a mif¬
take, and prefently difcover it in the very time of wri¬
ting, the handfomert way of correcting it is, not to alter
or cancel any thing, but to write the port or fentence a-
new, beginning with fuch a ph'rafe as this, / fay ; as in the>
following example : Sold A. B. I fay. Bought of A. B.
II. Errors in the Ledger are of four forts. \fi. When
an article is entered upon a wrong accompt : This is to
be corrected, firft, by making the other fide of the faid ac¬
compt Dr to, or Cr by Error, for the fum of the faid
article ; which rectifies this accompt: After which, the-
article muft be entered in due-form, in the accompt to-
which it belongs ; or rather make the correction thus,-.,
viz. charge the one accompr Dr to the other, for fo
much per error. By either of thefe methods, the error-
is- removed, and the purity of the books reftored. 2dly, .
When an article is entered in the right aecompt, but up¬
on the wrong fide; that is, upon the Dr fide, when ie
fliould have been upon the Cr fide, or vice verfa ; r>
correCt this, the firft thing to be done is, to remove the
error, by making -the other fide of the faid accompt Dr
to, or'Cr by Error, for the fum of the article: After
which, the article muff be entered anew upon the right
fide, as if no fuch blunder had happened, ^dly, When
there is an error in a fum of money : This, if it be too -
little, is corrected by a new charge on the fame fide, .
for the defeCt; and if it be too much, the miftake is
reffified by a difcharge on the oppofite fide for the excefs,
viz: the accompt is debited or credited to, or by ditto
perfon, or ditto goods, for fo much fltort-pofted,’ or over¬
charged. fthly, When an article is quite forgot, or ne¬
glected, errors of this nature are eafily adjufted, viz. by
making the entry omitted-; only obferve, that it is not to -
be crouded in betwixt two former entries, in order to
make it poffefs the place it would havedone, had it come
regularly in.; for though the order, whatever it be, can
occafion no error in the iflue, yet this interlining would*
look more confufed and irregular than the diforder of tha -
date, which any perfbn {killed in book-keeping wiH eafily:
perceive to have happened through miftake.
Of balancing the Ledger, and raifing from if an.
Inventory, .to begin, a new. Set .of Books. .
Merchants commonly once a-year balance or dole
their Ledger, and raife from it the materials of an In¬
ventory to a new fet of books, for the enfuing year..
Now, ,
533 B O O K t K
Now, to make the method of doing this plain and intel¬
ligible to a learner, it mud be obferved, that, by the
word Balance, merchants underdand the difference be¬
twixt the firms on the Dr and Cr fides of any accompt.
Which difference being entered on the defe&ive fide, the
accompt is faid to be balanced ; that is, to have the fums
of the Dr and Cr fides evened, or made equal. And
the fides of the federal accompts throughout the Ledger
being thus evened, and the total fums formally fet down
on the foot of the accompts, the Ledger is faid to be ba¬
lanced, clofed, or finifhed. Again, in order to under-
ftand how the new Inventory is formed from the old
Ledger, it muft be obferved, that thefe balances or differ¬
ences of the fides of accompts, are of different kinds.
In fome accounts, the balance is, the gain or lofs made
upon the fale of goods ; in fome, the balance is, the
price of goods remaining unfold; and in others, it is a
debt due to, or by the merchant, 6'c. Now, balances
of the fir It kind, viz. of gain or lofs, muft be diftin-
guilhed from the reft, and carried to the Profit and Lofs
accompt; which being done, the balance or difference of
its fides, will be the gain or lofs made upon one year’s
trade, and goes to the Stock-accompt. All the other
kinds of balances muft be brought together into one fpace
or folio, under the title of Balance-accompt, and are the
very articles of which the Inventory is made up. The
moft natural method of balancing the Ledger is, firft to
point out what is contained upon the Dr and Cr fides of
each accompt, and confequently what the balances are ;
and then, to ftiew the mercantile and approved way of
going to work, in clofing the Ledger, collefting the ba¬
lances, and converting them into a new Inventory. This
we lhall do in the form of problems.
P R O B. I.
What the Balances in the Accompts of proper
Trade are.
§ i. What the Balances in proper domeftic
Trade are.
i. Cafh-accompt, N° I. and 61.
Contains, upon the Dr fide, the ready money
which the merchant had at firft, or when the books
were begun ; together with all he has received fince that
time. The Cr fide contains all the payments he has
made, or the money he has given out. So that the dif¬
ference of the two fides is, the ready money he has by
him; and therefore this accompt is clofed, by being cre¬
dited by Balance, for the faid difference.
2. An Accompt of Goods, N° 2. 3. II. 12. 14. 18.
20. 21. 27. &c.
Contains upon the Dr fide, the prime coft and char¬
ges; and, upon the Cr fide, the faje or difpofal of them.
So that there are here three varieties. 1. When the
goods are all difpofed of, which is known by the inner
columns being equal, the difference of its fides is, the
gain or lofs made upon the fale; and fo is clofed, by
charging it Dr to Profit and Lofs, for the gain, if the
Cr fide be heavieft; or giving it credit by Profit and
E E P I N G.
Lofs, for the lofs, if the Dr fide be heavieft. N° 2.
11. 14. 18. &c. 2. When none of the goods are dif¬
pofed of, which will appear by the Cr fide being empty,
then it is clofed by Balance, for the whole fum on the
Dr fide. N° 21. 27. <bc. 3. When only part of the
goods are difpofed of, which will appear by the inequa¬
lity of the quantity-columns; this cafe requires common¬
ly two clofing entries, viz. Firft, the accompt muft be
credited by Balance, for the goods remaining, valued at
the prime coft; which equals the inner columns: After
this, if the money-columns be unequal, it muft be made
Dr to, or Cr by Profit and Lofs, for the gain or lofs
made upon what are fold; which evens the outer co¬
lumns, and clofes the accompts. N° 3. 12.
Note 1. If the goods are of different kinds or prices,
as they ftiould be diftinguiflied, when polled to the
Ledger, by different numbers, or feparate inner columns;
fo care muft be taken, in balancing the accompt, to
mention the kind of goods remaining unfold, and to va¬
lue them at their own prices.
Note 2. A merchant may, at any time, know what
goods he his on hand, by comparing the inner columns
of the Accompts of Goods/without being put to the
trouble of infpe&ing his warehoufe, and weighing or
meafuring the goods themfelves.
Note 3. If there be inlack or outcome of goods,
that is, defedt or excels in weight or meafure, it will
happen, when the goods are all difpofed of, that the in¬
ner columns will not be equal. In this cafe, the ba¬
lance or equality muft be reftored, by inferting as much
in the deficient column as will make it equal to the o-
ther, writing the words Inlack, Broke, Loft in weight,
Ullaged, Outcome, or the like, before it, as the reafon
why it is added: but nothing goes to the money-columns.
3. Plate and Jewels.
This account contains, On the Dr fide, the things of
that kind you are poffeffed of; and, like an accompt of
goods remaining on hand, is clofed, by being credited
by Balance.
4. Perfonalaccompts, N° 5. 6. 7. 9. 10. 13. 15. he.
Contain, upon the Dr fide, the debts due by the per-
fon to the merchant, with the payments made upon any-
other fcore by the merchant to him. The Cr fide con¬
tains the payments made by the perfon to the merchant,
with the debts due by the merchant to 'the faid perfon,
upon any other dealings. So that there are here two
cafes. \ft, If the Dr fide be heavieft, the difference is
a debt due by the perfon to the merchant. N° 13.24. he.
2dly, If the Cr fide be heavieft, the difference is a debt
due by the merchant to the perfon. N° 15. 57. And
in both cafes the accompt is clofed, by making it Dr to,
or Cr by Balance, for the difference of its fides.
5. Bills receivable, N° 2J.
This is a general perfonal accompt, and contains upon
the Dr fide, bills accepted, and payable to the merchant.
The Cr fide contains the payments he has received. So
that the difference of its fides (if there be any) is, what
is yet unpaid-: And the accompt is clofed, by giving it
credit by Balance, for the faid difference.
6. Bills
B O O K - K
6. Bills payable, N° 52.
This is an accompt of the fame nature with the form¬
er ; and contains, upon the Cr fide, the bills accepted
by the merchant, payable to others ; and, upon the Dr
fide, the payments he has made. So that the difference
of the fides* (if there be any) is the bills yet unpaid:
And the accompt is clofed, by charging it Dr to Ba¬
lance.
7. Bills of Exchange.
This accompt exhibits, on the Cr fide, all the bills you
draw on your fa&ors or correfpondents ; and the Dr fide
fhows what of them are accepted, protefted, or yet out-
ftanding; and is clofed, if the fides happen to be unequal,
by being debited to Balance, for the bills out-flanding,
viz. the bills of whofe acceptance you have hitherto
had no advice.
8. Bonds.
This accompt exhibits, on the Dr fide, all the bonds
you have received, and on the Cr fide, what of them are
paid, or out-ftanding ; and is clofed, if the fides happen to
be unequal, by being credited by Balance, for the bonds
yet unpaid.
9. Sufpenfe-accompt, N° 34.
Contains, upon the Dr fide, the goods fent off; and
upon the Cr fide, either the fame goods returned, or ad¬
vice from your correfpondent that he defigns to keep
them, or the price fent up. So that either the fides
of this accompt are equal, and then the accompt clofes
of itfelf; or, if there be any difference, it is owing to
your having hitherto had no advice concerning fome of
the goods fent off; and in this cafe the accompt is clo¬
fed, by being credited by Balance, for the faid dif¬
ference.
10. Foreign Coin, N° 26.
Contains, upon the Dr fide, the value at which the
feveral pieces are received; and on the Cr fide, the va¬
lue at which they are put off. In clofing this accompt,
there are three cafes. \Ji, If the pieces are all difpofed
ef, the accompt is clofed, by being debited or credited to or
by Profit or lofs, for the gain or lofs made by them. 2dly,
If none of the pieces are yet difpofed of, it is clofed by be¬
ing credited by Balance, for the whole value on the Dr fide.
ofly. If part of them are difpofed of, and part of them
yet on hand ; in this cafe, the accompt mull firfl be cre¬
dited by Balance, for value of the pieces on hand; and
if after this the money-columns flili remain unequal, it
muft be debited or credited to or by Profit and Lofs, for
the faid difference; which is the gain or.lofs made upon
the pieces difpofed of.
v 1. IVagers Accompt.
Contains, upon the Dr fide, the confignments made
when the wagers were entered into. The Cr fide con¬
tains the decifions of the wagers. So that here occur
two varieties, viz. if. If all the wagers are determined,
the difference of the fides will be the gain made upon
thofe decided in favour of the merchant; and the ac¬
compt is clofed, by being charged Dr to Profit and Lofs,
for the faid difference. 2dly, If any of the wagers are
yet undecided, the accompt muft firft be credited-by Ba¬
lance for them: After which, if the fides are ftill un-
Vo l. I. Numb. 25. .3
i: E P I N G. 589
equal, it muft be charged Dr to Profit and Lofs, for
the difference..
12. Deceafed Perfon's Efate.
The Dr fide of this accompt exhibits the legacies, bills,
or debts, you the executor have paid on account of the
perfon deceafed; and the Cr fide fhows what he died
pofTeffed of: And the accompt is clofed, by being made
Dr to Profit and Lofs, for the difference of its fides ;
which is the fum that falls to you the executor.
13. Accompts of Ships, Houfes, and other Pof-
. Jefions, N° 4.
Contain, upon the Dr fide, what they coft at firft, or
are valued at, with all charges, fuch as repairs, or other
expences laid out upon them. The Cr fide contains,
(if any thing be writ upon it), either what they are fold
or exchanged for, or the profits arifing from them; fuch
as freight, rent, 6c. Here there are three cafes, if.
If nothing be written upon the Cr fide, it is clofed, by
being credited by Balance, idly, If the Cr fide be fill¬
ed up, with the price of the fhip, houfe, 6c. fold, or
otherwife difpofed of, then the difference of the fides is
the gain or lofs made upon the fale; and the accompt is
clofed, by being debited or credited to or by Profit and
Lofs. idly. If the Cr fide contain only the freight or
rent; in this cafe, firft charge the fhip, houfe, 6c. Dr
to Profit and Lofs, for the freight or rent; and then
dofethe accompt with Balance. N° 4.
14. Houfe-expences, Charges of Merchandize, Refufal
of Bargains, Interef-accompt, Infurance accompt,
and all others of the like nature, that are difburfe-
ments for which nothing comes in, or pure incomes
for which nothing goes out. N° 6j. 42. 35.
Contain, upon their Dr fides, the articles of lofs, and
upon the Cr fides the articles of gain; and are clofed,
by being debited or credited to or by Profit and Lofs,
for the difference of their fides.
15. Profit and Lofs, N° 38.
Contains, upon the Dr fide, the articles of lofs, and
on the Cr fide the articles of gain. To this accompt
are carried, not only whatever comes in courfe to it from
the Journal, but alfo all the articles of gain and lofs that
occur in clofing the Ledger-accompts. After which, the
Dr and Cr fides being added up, their difference is the
neat gain or lofs made'fince the books were begun; and
therefore this accompt is clofed, by being debited or cre¬
dited to or by Stock, for the difference of its fides.
16. Stock-accompt, N° 8.
As gathered from the Journal, contains, upon the Dr
fide, the debts due by the merchant when the books
were begun. The Cr fide contains his ready money, ef-
fetfts, and debts due to him at the fame time. But
then, to this accompt, as it nowftands, there is brought,
at clofing of the Ledger, the difference of the fides of
. the Profit and Lofs accompt. After which, the Dr and
Cr fides being added up, and compared, their difference
will be the merchant’s prefent neat ftock; and the ac¬
compt is clofed by Balance.
BOOK-KEEPIN
G.
59°
§ 2. IVbat the Balances in proper Foreign
Trade are.
1. Voyage to, or frr)7n , N° 16. 40. 47-
Contains, upon the Dr fide, the prime coft and char¬
ges of the cargo. The Cr fide is either empty, or it
contains the receipt or difpofal of the goods by the fadtor,
or perhaps returns made for them. There are therefore
here two cafes. 1 Jl, If the Cr fide be empty, the fhip
is ftill at fea, or, at leaft, there has been as yet no ad¬
vice of her arrival; and the accompt is clofed, by gi¬
ving it credit by Balance. 2city. If the Cr fide be filled
up, the difference of the fides is the gain or lofs made
upon the voyage ; and accordingly the accompt is clofed
by being made Dr or Cr to or by Profit and Lofs. If
the fums of the fides happen to be equal, there is. nei¬
ther gain nor lofs on the voyage; and the accompt clofes
of itfelf.
2. A. B. my Accompt of Goods.
Contains, upon the Dr fide, the goods configned to,
and received by the fadlor j and on the Cr fide,, the
difpofal of the faid goods. This accompt balances ex-
a&ly as an Accompt of goods in proper domeJUc trade.
3. A. B. my Accompt on Time.
Contains, upon the Dr fide, the debts due to the
fa&or, for my goods fold by him on time. The Cr fide
contains the payments made by debtors to the fiadtors.
So that, if there be any difference of the fides, it is the
debts yet out-iknding : And the accompt is clofed, by
giving it credit by Balance.
4. A. B. my accompt-current, N° 41. 53.
Contains, upon the Dr fide, the money in the fadtor’s
hands, received by him of the fales of my goods, with
the remittances I had fent him, or payments I have made
him upon any other account. The Cr fide contains the
payments or remittances he has fent me, with the debts
I owe him upon any other fcore.. Indofing this accompt,
there are two cafes, iji. If the inner columns, which
contain the foreign money, be equal; then, if there be
any difference between the outer columns, it is the gain
or lofs made by exchange; which flows from the diffe¬
rent rates of exchange at which thefe debts have been
charged and difcharged : And the accompt in this cafe is
clofed, by being made Dr to or Cr by Profit and Lofs,
for the difference of the outer columns. 2a'/)', If the
inner columns are unequal, they muff firft be brought to
an equality, by making the accompt Dr to, or Cr by Ba¬
lance, for their difference, valuing the foreign money at
the current rate of exchange ; which difference is a debt
due by the fadtor if the Dr fide be heavied, but due to the
factor if the Cr fide be heavieft. If after this the outer
columns are unequal, their difference is, the gain or
lofs made by exchange; and the accompt mud be clo¬
fed, by making it Dr to or Cr by Profit and Lofs, for
the faid difference.
P R O K. II.
JVhat the Balances in Fadory-accompts are.
J. A. B. his Accompt of Goods, N° 48.
This accompt contains, upon the Dr fide, the charges
paid by the fadtor. The Cr fide contains the fale of
difpofal of the goods. In clofing this accompt, there
are five varieties. \fl. If the goods are all fold, and all
the money received, this accompt is balanced, by being
charged Dr, firfl to Profit and Lofs, for the fadtor’s
commiffion, at fo much per cent, after which, the diffe¬
rence of the fides is, the money due to the employer ;
and is clofed, by being again charged Dr to A. B. his
Accompt-current, for the faid difference. 2dly, If the
goods are all fold, but ho money yet received, it is clo¬
fed, by being made Dr to Profit and Lofs, for the fac¬
tor’s commiflion, and to A. R. his Accompt on Time,
for the out-ftanding debts due to him. idly, If the
goods are all fold, and only part of the money received,
it is clofed, by being made Dr to Profit and Lofs, for
the fadtor’s cbmmiffion ; to A. B. his Accompt on Time,
for the out-ftanding debts ; and to A. B. his Accompt-
current, for the employer’.s money in fadfor’s hands.
6,thly, If none of the goods' be yet fold, it is clofed, by
giving it credit by Balance, for the fum of the charges
on the Dr fide. J/A/y, If only part of the goods are
fold, and fo the accompt unfinifhed, the belt way to
clofe it is, by a double balance; that is, firft charge it
Dr to Balance, for the fum upon the Cr fide; and then
give it credit by Balance, for the charges on the Dr
fide. Thus the accompt will appear in the new books in
the fame ftate that it did in the old.
2. A. B. his Accompt on Time, N° 49.
Contains, upon the Cr fide, the debts due by thofe
who bought the employer’s goods ; and as thefe debts are
paid in to the fadtor, it is charged Dr to A. B. his Ac¬
compt-current, for the faid payments ; and therefore, if,
at clofing of the Ledger, there be any difference of its
fides, it is the debts yet out-ftanding ; and is doled, by
being charged Dr to Balance, for the faid difference.
3. A. B. his Accompt-current, N° 36. JO.
Contains, upon the Dr fide, the money laid out by the
fadtor for the employer’s ufe, as in anfwering his bills,
or remitting bills to him, or otherwife. The Cr fide
contains the money in the fadtor’s hands belonging to the
employer. So that the difference of its fides is, the
debts due by the fadtor to A. B. or by A. B. to him ;
and the accompt is clofed, by being made Dr or Cr to
or by Balance.
Note, If the fadtor difpofe of the employer’s good on
trull, to perfons with whom he has private dealings of
his own, it will be proper, in clofing their accompts,.to
divide the balance into two parts, viz. one due for
the employer’s goods, and the other due to or by
himlelf.
PROB.
59i
B O O K - K
P R O B. III.
IVbat the Balances in Company-accomfts are.
§. x. What the Balances in the Accompts kept by
a Partner are.
X. A. B. my Accompt in Company, N° 54.
Contains, upon the Dr fide, the partner’s inputs,
and (hare of charges; upon theCr fide, the returns made ;
and the difference is the gain or lofs. In balancing this
accompt, there are two cafes. \J}, If the accompt be
finilhed, i. e. if the goods be fold, and returns made, it
is clofed, by being made Dr or Cr to or by Profit and
Lofs. idly. If the accompt be yet unfinilhed, the belt
way is, to clofe it with a double balance; that, is, to
make it Dr to Balance, for the fum of the Cr fide, and
give it credit by Balance, for the fum of the Dr fide.
2. A. B. my Accompt-proper, N° 55.
This accompt is merely perfonal, and clofed with Ba¬
lance, for the difference of its fides; which is the debt
due to, or by the company.
§ 2. What the Balances of the Accompts kept by
a Truftee in bis own Books are.
Before the truftee clofe the company’s accompts, he
ought to make the double Journal entry following, if it
be not done already; namely, \Jl, Goods in Company,
or Voyage, tec. Dr to Sundries, viz. to Cafh, for all
charges not yet ftated to accompt, fach as cellar-rent, tec.
and to Profit and Lofs, for his own commiffion, at fo
much per cent, idly. Each partner’s Accompt-propef
Dr to his Accompt in Company, for their refpe&ive
(hares of the above charges and commiflion. Thefe en¬
tries being made, the balances of the accompts are as-
follows.
I. Goods in Company, N° 58. 62.. 71. 74.
Contains, upon the Dr fide, the prime coft of the
goods flocked in, with all charges, and the truftee’s com¬
miffion. The Cr fide contains the difpofal of them.
The difference of the fides is-gain or lofs, to be divided
amongft the partners. Here there are three cafes. \fl. If
the goods be all fold, the accompt is clofed, by being;
debited or credited to or by Sundries, viz. to, or by
each partner’s Accompt in company, for their (hares of
the gain or lofs ; and to, or by Profit and Lofs, for the
truftee’s own (hare. 2dly, If none of the goods are fold,'
then the accompt is clofed, by being credited by Sun¬
dries; viz. by each partner’s Accompt in Company, for
their (hares of the goods unfold ; and by Balance, for the
truftee’s (hare, ^dly. If part of the goods are fold, and
part of them yet. remain not difpofed of, this cafe is a
compound of the two former ; and accordingly the ac¬
compt is clofed, by making the entry mentioned in the
firft cafe, for the gain or lofs on thofe fold; and then,,
by making the ntry mentioned in the, fecond cafe, for
thofe not difpofed of.
E E P I N G.
2. Voyetge in Company, N° 66.
Contains, upon the Dr fide, the value and charges of
the goods fent to fea. The Cr fide contains the receipt
or difpofal of them by the factor. The difference of the
fides is gain or lofs. Here there are three cafes. \Jl, If
the Dr and Cr fides be equal, then the accompt clofes
of itfelf. idly, If one of the fides exceed the other,
then the accompt is clofed, by being made Dr or Cr to^
or by Sundries; viz. to, or by each partner’s Accompt
in Company, for their (hares of the gain or lofs ;
and to, or by Profit and Lofs, for the truftee’s (hare.
'idly. If nothing be yet writ upon the Cr fide, then the
accompt is clofed, by being credited by Sundries, viz.
by each partner’s Accompt in Company, for their (hares of
the goods at fea ; and by Balance, for the truftee’s (hare.
3. Futtor our Accompt of Goods.
Contains, upon the Dr fide, the company’s goods con-
figned to, and received by the factor. Tne Cr fide Con¬
tains the difpofal of them. The difference of the fides
is gain or lofs made upon the fale of them. This ac¬
compt has the fame varieties, and is balanced the fame
way with Goods in company.
4. Fad or o'ur Accompt-current.
Contains, upon the Dr fide, what money belonging to
the company is in the fador’s hand. The Cr fide con¬
tains the returns he has made in goods or bills. The
difference is the debt due to or by the fador. This ac¬
compt is clofed, by being made Dr or Cr to or by Ba¬
lance, for the faid difference.
5. Partner his Accompt in Company, N° 59. 69. 70.
Contains, upon the Cr fide, the partner’s inputs, with
his (hare of charges, and of gain at clofe. Tire Dr fide
contains returns for inputs difpofed of,, or goods remain¬
ing unfold, with thC partner’s (hare of Ioffes, if any.
This accompt, after the preceding accompts are balanced,
will always clofe of itfelf; as is evident by confidering
what goes to the two fides of it: fo that if the balance
of this accompt fail, the accomptant may conclude, for
certain, that Tomething in the company’s accompts is,
wrong, or at leaft fome miftake has happened in doling
them.
6. Partner his Account-proper, Na6o. 67. 68.
Is a perfonal account, the difference of whofe fides is
the,debt due to or by the partner, and is clofed with
Balance.
Note. If the defign of balancing the company-accompts
be, not in order to know the date of the company’s af¬
fairs, but only that the old Ledger may be finiftied, and
the aceompts carried to new books ; the accomptant, in
this cafe, may either balance them as above direfted ; or
he may, if he pleafes, clofe all of them by a double ba¬
lance ; which is the ealieft and (liorteft way, and will
have the fame effedt in the iffue.
§ 3. What the Balances of the Accomptskept by a
frujlee in feparate Books are.
I. Goods in Company, and Voyage in Company,
Have the fame things upon their Dr and Cr fides, as
when-
592 B O O K - K
when kept in books along with other bufinefs ; but are
clofed with Profit ami Lofs in Company, for the gain or
, lofs ; and with partners Accompts in company, for their
refpedtive fhares of goods remaining unfold, or at fea.
2. Cajh in Company,
Contains, upon the Dr fide, the fums of money given
in by partners, and received from dealers for goods fold ;
the Cr fide contains the fums laid out; fo that the dif¬
ference of its fides is the money on hand ; and is clofed
with Balance in company.
3. Partner bis Accompt in Company,
Contains the fame thing upon its Dr and Cr fides re-
fpedtively, as when kept in books along with other bufi¬
nefs ; and, after the accompts of goods and voyages are
balanced, will always clofe of itfelf.
4. Partner bis Accompt-proper.
This and all perfonal accompts, as they contain the
fame things upon their Dr and Cr fides, as their paral¬
lels, in proper trade, fo they are all clofed with Balance
in company.
j. Profit and Lofs in Company.
The difference of its fides is the gain or lofs made
upon company-trade, and muft be charged Dr to tire
truftee his Accompt-proper, for his commiflion; after
which, it is clofed, (if no Stock-accompt is kept), by be¬
ing made Dr or Cr to or by Sundries, viz. Each part¬
ner bis accompt in company, for the refpe&ive fhares of
gain or lofs. But if you keep a Stock-accompt in com¬
pany, then this accompt is clofed with it; and the Stock-
accompt is again clofed with the partners Accompts in
company.
6. Balance in Company,
Contains, upon the Dr fide, the company’s ready mo¬
ney in the truftee’s hand, with the debts to the com¬
pany, whether by partners or dealers ; the Cr fide con¬
tains the debts due by the company, and that whether to
partners or to dealers : And if the books have been right¬
ly kept, and duly balanced, the two fides of this accompt
will always equal one another to a farthing.
Note. If you incline the goods remaining unfold, or
at fea, fhould appear upon the Balance-accompt, you
muft clofe the Accompt of goods and Voyages with Ba¬
lance in company, for the value of the quantity not dif-
pofed of, or at fea ; and you may clofe the partners Ac¬
compts in company (which in this cafe will not clofe of
themfelves), either with their Accompts proper, or with
Balance in company, as you pleafe.
How the Balances are collected, the Ledger clofed.
and a new Inventory formed.
When you defign to balance your Ledger, in order
to begin a new fet of books, proceed in the manner fol¬
lowings
Take two fheets or folios of loofe paper, rule them
like the Ledger, and write on the heads or tops of them,
the titles of the two following Accompts, viz. on the
head of the one, Profit and Lofs Dr, and Contra Cr;
E E P I N G.
on the other, Balance Dr, and Contra Cr. Then, be¬
ginning with the Accompt of calh, go over every accompt
in the Ledger, (omitting only the Accompts of-Profit and
Lofs and Stock, which mull be left open to the lalt), and
carry the articles of gain or lofs found on any of them,
to the Profit and Lofs Iheet; and the articles of debt, or
goods remaining, to the Balance Iheet, without touching
the accompts themfelves: <?.£. Taking from theTrial-ba-
lance the fums of the Dr and Cr fides of the Calh-accompt,
fubtraft the one fum from the other, and, on the Balance
fheet, make Balance Dr to Calh, for their difference, be¬
ing the ready money in your hands. Again, in an Ac¬
compt of goods that are all fold, taking the fums of the
Dr and Cr fides, fubtradl the one from the other, and,
on the other (heet, make Profit and Lofs Dr or Cr to or
by the faid Accompt of Goods, for the difference of its
fides. And in this manner proceed with every other ac¬
compt in the Ledger, according to their nature, as ex¬
plained in the lalt fedtion.
Having advanced thus far, your next ftep is, to add
up the Dr fides of the Profit and Lofs Iheet, and the
Profit and Lofs accompt in the Ledger, into one fum,
and their Cr fides into another; and, on the faid Iheet,
make Profit and Lofs Dr or Cr to or by Stock, for their
difference: Which difference being carried to the Stock-
aecompt, add up its Dr and Cr fides, and carry their
difference to the Balance fheet. Which being done, the
total fums of the Dr and Cr fides of the Balance fheet
will be equal to a farthing, if the books be right, and
the balancing work truly performed: As may be thus
demonftrated.
It is obvious, that the Balance fheet, before the ba¬
lance of the Stock-accompt is brought to it, contains,
upon the Dr fide, the money and goods you have on
hand, or at fea, or in the hands of factors, with the
debts due to you; the articles on the Cr fide are the
debts due by you to others : So that the difference of its
fides is yourprefent worth, or neat flock. Now, if the
balance of the Stock-accompt be alfo equal to your pre-
fent neat flock, it is plain, that it will even the fides of
the Balance-accompt. But that it is fo, appears thus.
Your prefent neat flock is equal to your neat flock
when the books were begun, with the addition of the
gain, or diminution of the lofs, made fince that time:
but the difference of the fides of Stock-accompt, before
the balance of Profit and Lofs accompt be brought to
it, is your neat flock when the books were begun; and
the balance of Profit and Lofs accompt, is the gain or
lofs made fince that time; which, confequently, being
brought to Stock-accompt, makes the balance of Stock-
accompt equal to your prefent neat flock; and therefore
the balance of Stock-accompt evens the fides of Balance-
accompt.
If, after the balance of Stock-accompt is brought to
Balance-accompt, the fides happen to be flill unequal,
there has unqueflionably fome error been committed;
which you mull find out by a careful review of the ba¬
lancing work: for here the error mull lie, fince the books
are fuppofed to have been examined, and found right,
or made fo, hefore the balancing was begun. On the
other hand, if the fides of Balance-accompt be equal.
BOOK-KEEPING.
all may be prefumed right. There is not, indeed, an
abfolute certainty in the cafe: for, if you imagine two
miftakes committed, either both in the articles of Profit
and Lofs, or both in the articles of Balance, or one in
the former, and the other in the latter, both excelfes,
or both defeats, equal, and on oppofite fides, it is plain
this would not impede the equality of the Dr and Cr
fides of the Balance-accompt. But then this is fo great
a chance, that it is more than probable fuch a thing can
never happen, and pafs too, without being difcovered.
Having brought the two fides of the Balance-accompt
to an equality, which is the teft of every thing being
right, proceed to clofe the Ledger-accompts, thus. Firlt,
to the Profit and Lofs accompt, transfer the articles on
the Profit and Lofs Iheet. Next, at the end of the
Ledger, eredt an Accompt of Balance, into which tran-
fcribe the Balance Iheet. After which, return to the
beginning of the Ledger, and giving the Calh-accompt
credit by Balance, for your ready money, draw a line
crofs the money-columns on each fide, at the foot of the
accompt; below which fet down the total fums, which
will be now equal. Proceed in like manner with all the
following accompts, transferring to each the refpeftive
articles that belong to them, from the two fheets of loofe
paper, inferting the referring figures in the folio-column,
and writing the total fums on the foot of the accompt;
by which means all the accompts in the Ledger will come
to be balanced and clofed; that is, evened and finifhed.
But here it will be proper to obferve, that merchants,
593
in balancing their Ledger, do not all go the fame way
to work. For fome, inftead of proceeding according to
the above diredtions, clofe their Ledger-accompts, and
port the clofing entries to the Accompts of Profit and
Lofs, and Balance, all at the fame time. And it mult
be owned, that this way, pradtifed with care, will well
enough anfwer the purpofe; but to poll the clofing en¬
tries in the firfl: place, and then to clofe the accompts,
feems to be the furer and better method.
The Ledger being now clofed, the next thing to be
done is, to begin a new fet of books; in order to which,
a new inventory muft be fetched from your old book?,
as the foundation of your future trade in the new. Now,
it is plain, at firfl: view, that the feveral articles on the
Dr fide of the Balance-accompt, being the particular
items of your effedts, and debts due to you, make up the
firft part of the Inventory; and the feveral articles on the
Cr fide, except the lafl, being the debts due by you to
others, make up the fecond part of it: and accordingly
in your new Journal, the feveral particulars on the Dr
fide muft all of them be made Drs to Stock, and Stock
Dr to the feveral particulars on the dr fide ; and Stock-
accompt in your New Ledger will ftand thus :
Stock Dr, Contra Cr,
To Jacob Rujfel, By Cajh,
To H. V. Beck, By Indian chinls.
See. See.
7 L
Vot. I. No. 2f.
3
t
WASTE-
/. S.d.
594
B O O K - K E
( i )
WASTE - BO OK.
Edinburgh, the ill of January 1769.
in Inventory of the money, goods,
and debts belonging to me A. B. as
alfo of the debts due by me to others,
.1 Have in ready money -
Alfo 2000 yards fine linen, at
2 /. 6 d. y
 1 j pieces Indian chintaf, 7
at 24/. 10/. y
   of the (hip Britannia^
(freighted by Mr Steel and /
comp, for a voyage to Bar- r
badoes) with repairs, coft y
 John Harris owes me 7
per note, on demand, £
 Thomas Freeman owes
me per bill, due 2d Febru- >
ary next, - - y
 George Evans owes me-
/>er bond, dated the nthy
Nov. laft, and payableV-
Mart. nzxt, with intereltN
at y per cent. - - -I
l. s. d.
12000 00 o
250 00 o
367 10 o
348 10 o
96 00 o
I owe as follows.
To Jofeph Martin, on de-7
mand^ - y
To Sir Ifaac Crifp, due ill7
of June next, - y
36 00
120 00 o
-6th.-
Bought for ready money, 40 pieces cam
brics, at 2 /. 16 r.
B. 1. F. 1.
oth,
f Bought of John Vernon 100 pieces du-
jroys, at 26 r. to pay at two months,
B. 3.
 15th. 
y Paid Jofeph Martin in full,
F. 4.
f Bought of Javob Ruffel 26 pieces drug¬
gets, at 7/. 10 r.
Paid half down,
Reft due 011 demand.
/. s.d.
97 10 o
97 ic o
b.5.
E P I N G.
WASTE-BOOK. (2)
- January 21ft.—
Sent as an adventure to Jamaica, in the
•hip Hopewell, Captain Gordon mafter, con-
figned to William Boyd, the following goods,
marked and numbered as per margin, viz.
I. s. d.
70 pieces of my own duroys, 7
at 26 s. y 91 00 0
6 pieces holland, prefently7
bought of Jacob Green, 108 00 o
18/. to pay at 2 months, )
Paid charges, till on board, 14 11 4
Paid alfo premium to Simon J
Smith and company, forv 10 00 o
infuring 200 /. J
-30th.-
G. 4-
Paid Jacob Rujfel, in full for druggets,
F. 4.
-February 2d.-
Bought of Edward Harley 1000 yards
broad cloth, at i^s. (>d.
1. s. d.
Paid him part in money, - 330 00 o
Given him a bill on lohn Har- 7
rit for J j 4* 00 o
Reft due at 3 months, - 300 c
■:5th-
B.7.
/ Received of Tnomas Freeman in full,
I E. 4.
-16th.-
/ Bought for prefent money the goods fol¬
lowing, viz.
1. s. d.
90 pieces kerfeys, at 6/. - 540 00 o
i2opiecesfuftians, at37/. 6</. 225 00 o
B.n.i
156
0000
I 30 O'
360000.
-25th.-
/ Sold 10 pieces druggets, at 8/. 3/. for
ready money,
C. i.E. 1.
i
—March ift.-
Sold George Young 400 yards broad cloth,
at 14/. to pay at 1 month,
C. 3.
 4th. 
Sold John Keil my 90 pieces kerfeys, at
6/. 7/.
/. /. d.
Received in part, - - 300 00 O
Reft due at 20 days, - - 271 100
C. ;.
Paid John Vernon, in full for duroys,
F. 4.
Lent Jacob Spencer, upon bond, for 6
>onths, at 5 per cent. - - ■
F. 2.
223 1104
j |
97 IOOQ
67JOOOO
960OOO
765 00 00
8ijiooo
28000 00
571 1000.
130 0000
:ooo oopof
March
B O O K - K
(3) WASTE-BOOK,
—March 17th.
Sold Jacob Prejion 200 yards broad cloth,
at 14/. and 2d. for payment whereof he has
given me a bill on Henry Sidney, payable at
light; the fum is - - -
C. 2. F. n. 4
22d,-
/. \s.\d.
E PINO.
WASTE-BOOK.
Sold Richard Stone 400 yards broad cloth,
at 14/. ^d. which he has paid, as follows, viz.]
/. s. d\
Given me 26 moidores, at 27/. 35 02 o
Given me in Britijh coin, 150 14 8
And for the reft, an affismment7
„ „. . _ ^ ^ > 100 00 oj
a G. Digby,
C. 4. F. n.
-23d-
Paid Jacob Green in full for holland,
bllows, viz.
1.
Given him my 26 moidores at 26/. 6(/. 34 09
And the reft in Britijh coin, - 73
F. 4. & n. 8.
Received of Henry Sidney, in full of Jacob.
Prejion's bill,
E. 4. F. n. 4. & 9.
 April ill. 
/.
Received of John Keil, in full for? 0
kerfeys, the fum of - - j 280 00
Abated him, on account he com¬
plains two of the pieces proved not
fo good as the reft,
285
( 4 )
-April 30th.-
Bkrtered with George Dennis l. s. d.
1000 yards linen, at 2/. 9//. 137 10 o
And 2 pieces Indian chints, at 25/. jo 00
7 bags cotton, containing"?
C. 2 Q^neat, at 3/. lyr-C 159 07 6
For
42 C. 2 v^neat, at 3 1. 15 r. >
per C. - - 3
And 12 lb. cloves, at 9/. \d.
D. 4,
--May 3d.-
Received of George Toting, i
cloth.
-10th.-
E. 4.
Bartered 2 pieces Indian chints, at 25 /. for
40 pieces lockrams, of the fame value, viz z
D. 1.
16 th.
Bartered tooo yards linen, at 2 r. 8 d. for
he following goods of the fame value, viz.
1. s. d.
1 C. cochineal, valued at 108 16 o
64 lb. cinnamon, at 7/. 8</. 24 10
■22d.-
D. 3.
Bartered 6 pieces Indian chints, at 241.
j /. for
/.
8 bales muflin, at 12/. i6r. 102 8
The balance I have received in money 46 2!
 !i48|iooo
Paid Edouard Harley, in full for broad
jcloth
T. 4.
   7 th.— —
Sent Nathaniel Napier, in the country, 11
pieces druggets, defiring him to take them a,
/. 15/.; if not, to return them on m)
charges,
C.n.4.
3th,
J- J
N°
Paid Simon Smart, as a penalty for refufing
a bargain of Norwich fluffs,
B. n.
- t8th,
187
164
S9S
t.d.
606
Shipped on board the Swan, Robert Scot
mafter, by order and for account of John JeJ-
fop merchant in Genoa, the following goods,
marked and numbered as per margin, viz.
1. s.
8 tun "lead, bought of George~)
Dennis, at 13/. 10/. to pay
at 1 month,
yygjib. tanned leather, prefent-
Jy bought for ready' money, at1
7 d' - - )
Paid cuftom and other charges
Due to George Alton for packing.
My commiffion at 21 per cent.
Paid Simon Smith and company, ?
for infuring 3 50/. on the whole, 3
My commiUkm on ditto, at 4 per ?
cent. - 3
108 oc
- 219 id
1 05
8 ic
O. n.
. 2. 3.
Paid George Ait o>
Jeffbp's leather.
-31ft.-
a full for packing Jobs.
O. n. 3,
Drawn my bill on John JeJfop in Genoa, foi
160 dollars, payable to George St op lei on, o;
urder, for value here received, at 501/.
P. 3.
—  June 3d.: 
Dr George Friend is deceafed, and has left
me a legacy, payable by his executor Job/
Vernon, the fum is - -
E. n. 5.
8 th
Paid Sir Ifaac Grifp in part.
F. 4,
360
So^oo
June:
D. n. 2.
59^
( 5 )
B O O K - K
WASTE-BOOK.
Nathaniel Napier writes me, that he de
figns to keep the 16 pieces of druggets fent hin
the 7th of May laft, and promifes payment
viz. the one half againft the ill of Auguf
next, and the other half at Martinmas, the
whole being
C. n. 4.
18th.
Received advice from William Boyd in Ja¬
il: a, That he hath received and fold my ad¬
venture, the neat proceeds, as per accompt of
fales, amounting to 304/. yr. In return for
which, he hath put on board the fame fhip the
following goods, defiring me to draw for the
red, viz. 1. s. d.
6 barrels indigo, fontaining
126 1b. per barrel, at 2/.$- 81 18 00
2 d. per lb.
5 hoglheads pymento, contain¬
ing in all 15351b. and 6</. S- 38 07 06
per lb. 3
5 hogfheads fugar, containing 7
63 C. at 19 s. per C. 3
Charges as per his invoice.
Balance in his hands,
—June 16 th.—
59 17 00
15 04 11
108 19 07
■22d.-
H. 5.
Settled accompts with George Dennis, and
paid him in full,
F.4.
June 29th.
Paid Sir Ifaac Crifp in full,
—July 2d.-
F.
Paid (hop-rent for half a year, viz. from Ja¬
nuary 1. to July 1.
F. 12.
5th
Paid my (hopkeeper his bill of poftage, and
other petty charges,
F. 12.
•Qth.
Ship Hope-well is arrived fafe with my goods
from Jamaica; freight, duty, and other charges
paid here, amount to - -
K. n. 2.
Sold John Dyer my fix barrels indigo upor
the key, at 4/. 3 d. per lb.
Received in part, - - 80 13
Reft due at 6 months, - - 80 00
-10th. -
K. n. 2.
Brought into my warehoufe
My 5 hhds pymento, containing 7
15351b. valued at (sd. perlb.^
And alfo my 5 hhds fugar, con- 7
taining63C. at 19/./erC 3
K. n. 2.
/. /.
38 07 6
E P I N G.
WASTE-BOOK.
( 6 )
J- P
N°i,
Drawn my bill on William Boyd in Jamai-
, payable to Edward Dupper, or order, for
value due by ditto Dupper, at 10 days,
L. 2.
22d.
Shipped on board the Dolphin, configned to
John Perkins merchant in Hamburg, to fell
for my account, the goods following, marked
3-and numbered as per margin, viz.
/ l. s. d.
My 5 hhds fugar, valued at - 59 17 o
18 pieces calicoes, bought of7
Jacob RuJJel, at2/. ly/.V 49 10 o
to pay at 6 months, j
8 fother lead, prefently bought"?
for ready money, at 12/. 18/. 3 io3 °4 0
Paid cuftom and other charges, 14 06 8
Received of Edward Dupper, in full for my
bill on William Boyd,  
E.
Auguft:3d,
Received of Nathaniel Napier, in part for
druggets,      
/
/
-July 15th.-
-30th.-
G. n.
-6th.-
Lent Edward Harley upon bond, for three
months, at 5 per cent.  
F. 2.
10th,
Received from on board the Griffin, John
Temple mailer, the following goods, to fell
for account of Herman Van Seek, merchant in
Amjlerdam, viz. 18 C. flax, and 14 butts
madder, each butt containing 12 C.  
Paid cuftom, freight, wharfage, porterage,
M.
17th,
Sold Herman Van Beek's 14 butts madder,
:ontaining 168 C. at 2/. ioz. per C. for ready
N. 1.
23d.
Sold to Thomas Freeman, for account of
HermanVan Seek, 18 C. flax at 2/. to pay
at fix M°.     > )
N. 2.
Paid ftorage, brokerage, and other charges
1 Herman Van Beek's goods,
N.4.
My commiflion on 490/. at 2 1 per cent.
comes to - - - . .
N. 4.
Auguft
597
( 7 )
[hvb
N‘
B O O K
WASTE-BOOK.
-Auguft 30th.-
K E E
By order of Herman Van Beck, I have /hip¬
ped on board the Weajlt Jloop, Themas Dyke
matter, bound for Amjlerdam, the goods fol
lowing, marked and numbered as per
gin, viz.
1.
My' yhhds pymento, containing)
153y lb. which I value at 10^. C 63 19 2
per lb. - - • )
12 hhds tobacco, prefently bought)
for ready money, containing 60 C 62 xo o
0. at 2*y d. per lb. - jy
Paid cuftom and other charges, 7
Due to James Wright for cooperage 0128
My commiflion on the whole, at 7
2i per cent. - - 3 °7 6
-31ft.-
O. n.
i- 3-
Paid James Wright in full for)
cooperage, - - ^ o 12 c
The abatement allowed by him is, o 00
N. n. 2. O. n. 3.
-September xtt,-
Our Ihip the Britannia is arrived from Bar-
hadoes, and Mr Steel has paid the owners ir
full for freight. My £ part, which I have re¬
ceived, is' -
E. 10.
 3d. 
Accepted Herman Van Beck’s bill on me,
'payable to William Sabin at fix days fight; the
fum is - - - •
P. 2. F. n. 4. & 9,
8 th
138
Remitted Hersnan Van Beek a bill of 584
guilders, drawn by Jofeph Buchan on Ralph
Roger merchant in Amjlerdam, value paid here
exchange at 36/. isd. is - -
P. 4.
10th,
Paid William Sabin in full for Van Beck’s bill
P. n. 1. F. n. 4. & 9.
Received of Jacob Spence 6 months intereft
of 1000/. lent him, the principal being conti¬
nued in his hands for another half-year; the
fum received is - - -
E. 7.
22d
Received advice from John Perkins of Ham¬
burgh, That he hath received and difpofed of
my goodsj the neat proceeds, as per accomptof
Tales, amounting to 405/. 5/. i^d. Flemifh, ex¬
change at 34/. $d, makes Sterling
H. 2.
-28th,
Received from the commiffioners of the cu-
, ftoms the drawback on my 5 hhds fugar export¬
ed to Hamburg,
G. n. 3.
Vox..'!. No. 25. 3
PINO.
WASTE-BOOK.
( 8 )
—September 30th.-
John Perkins hath remitted me in full, ex¬
change at 34/. in bills on the following perfons.
'z. /. /. d
One, on John Aljlon, for 80 00 O
One, on Jacob Finch, for 120 00 o
One, on Stephen Mordcn, for 38 07 84
L. 5.
Odtober 4^1.--
Edward Hopkins and mylelf have agreed to
go equal halves in 10 hhds tobacco, he to be
manager; my half (hare, which I have paid
him down, comes to - -
(^-
9th. 
Edward Hopkins having difpoled of our to¬
bacco, has paid me my proportion of neat pro
ceeds, as follows, viz. 1.
Paid me in money - - 27 07 4
Given me a bill on Richard Ad- 7
difon for the rett - ^ 45 00 o
R. 1. n.
/1 Delivered to Edward Hopkins, 40 pieces
cambrics, to fell for our account, each 4->
ilued at 31. per piece, - - -
Q^2.
 IIth.     
/ ] Received of Edward Hopkins, in full for his
half-fhare of 4<J pieces cambrics,
I t ’•
’ 2 oth.   1 
/ I Edward Hopkins has fold our cambrics foi
jprefent money, and paid me my part of neat
proceeds, as follows, viz. 1. s d.
Given me 721b. cloves, at 9/. 32 08 00
The rett in money, - 30 00 00
2/. 8/. to pay at 3 months,
— 21 ft. —
R. r. r
238
07084
Bought of James Ward 90 pieces fluffs, at
B. 3.
Paid lofs of a wager on a horfe-race,
F. 14.
Bought in company with George Kent, each!
e half, the (hip Phoenix, for which we have;
paid down our refpe&ive (hares to the owners,'
amounting to - - - ' - I640I0000
S. 2. n 2. j '
-25 th.-
The carpenter has brought in his bill of re-]
pairs on the Phoenix, which I have paid, ; 1
. s. 3. !
Mr Jones and company have freighted the
Plcettix, for tear and wear of a voyage xo. Ca¬
diz, at 22 /. per month, and have'thereupon
advanced 1 month’s freight, which I have re¬
ceived,
T. 1. n. 1.
i-
7 M
Oftobsr
598
( 9 )
B O O K - K E
WASTE-BOOK.
The Royal Exchange infurance-office has in^
fured to us 600 /. on the Phoenix, outward and
inward at 3 per cent, the premium, which I
have paid, comes to,
S-3
26th,
Bought of Richard Ovien, for account of
George Kent and myfelf in company, each 4-
/.
4 pipes fherry, at 26/. - 104 00
5 pipes ditto, at 26/. ior. 132 1
Due on demand,  
S. 1.
 — 2 7 th.   
Adjufted accounts with George Kent, and
received
/. /. d.
His half-lhare of rpy difburfements 1 / a
on the Phoenix, 3 ^ 0
Received alfo his half-ftiare of the 7 t jg
price of 9 pipes ftierry, 3 11 ^ °
-Odlober 25th.-
U. 1
Paid Richard Onnen, in full for (berry
S. x.n.
 29th.   
Sold Eaward Turner our 5 heft: pipes fher¬
ry, at 29/.
/. /.
Received in part, - - 120 00
Reft due on demand, - 25 00
T. i.
Sold our other 4 pipes (herry, for ready
money, at 27/. 12/.
T. 1.
Received of Edward Turner, in full for c
fherry, -
T.1. n. 2.
Paid carriage, cellar-rent, and other charges
i our fherry, - - - -
S- 3*T. 3. n. 2.
/ My commiflion on the whole, at per cent
amounts to -
i T. 3. n. 2;
  4th. 
/ J Paid George1 Kent, in full for his half-fhare
lof neat proceeds on fherry,
| U.4.
-8 th..
/ Received from Edward Harley, in full of hi:
Eond dated 6th Juguji laft, with' 3 months in-
jtereft at 5 per-cent.
1.
The principal is - - 400 00’
Tire intereft comes to - - 5 oo!
236
708
1 i
E P I N G.
W A S T E - B O 0 K. ( 10 )
Received of Nathaniel Niaper
druggets.
P-J
N°
06. /
—November nth.-
Paid one year’s rent of my dwelling-houfe.
viz. from Mart. 1764 to Mart. 1765,
F. 13.
2th.
George Evans is broke, and I have compound¬
ed his debt of 300 /. at 12 s. per pound.
The compofition received is 180 00
The difcount is - - 120 00
E. 5~
■TJth.-
E. 4.
Simon King, John Oker, and myfelf, refol-
ving to make an equal joint adventure, we have
put into company what goods each of us have
proper for the intended voyage, without regard
to our due proportions, purpofing to adjuft that
matter with money.
1.
Simon Kina, 80 pieces ferge, at 7
5/. icr. - - j 440 00
John Oker, 70 pieces frize, at 4/. 280 00
I have put in my 90 pieces fluffs,
which I value at 2/. lor.
I have paid charges till on board, 27 10
I have alfo paid Simon Smith and 7
comp, for infuring 900/. on ourC 22 10
faid adventure, - j
Shipped the whole on board the ThiJlle,Q,zpt.
Bently mafter, configned to Philip Jenkins
merchant in Lisbon, to fell for our account, be-
ng marked and numbered as per margin.
V- 2.n. 2.
 17th. 
Upon adjufting accompts with Simon King
and John Oker, there appears due to the
former, /.
From John Oker, - - 51 13 4
And from me - - - 56 13
Which we have paid, the total")  
being 3
U. 4. & 7.
22d.
Simon King, John Oker, and myfelf, re-
folving further to trade in company, have
bought of Getrge IVood 18 tuns oil of Galli-
poly, at 29/. 1 or. due on demand, 53
S, 1.
■2 Jth.
Simon King, John Oker, and myfelf, have
paid George Wood, in full for oil, as follows,
"z. /. s.
S. King has given him goods to 7
the value of - £ 120 c
John Oker has counted with him for 200 o
I have paid him the reft in money, 211 o
U. 8. S. 1. ft.
00
B O O K - K E
( XI ) W A S T E - B O O K.
Simon King has evened our aceompts, by
paying A
To John Oker, - - 23 o
And to me, - - 34 0
—November 21ft.-
—30th.-
U. 7. & 1.
Sold James Fuller, 1 tun of our oil, to pay
at 14 days. ...
T. 1
-December 2d.
Sold George Young, 7 tuns of our oil, at
30A \os. A
Received in part, - - 113 10
Reft due in xo days, - - 100 00
- 7th. -
T. 1.
y Bartered 10 tuns of our oil, at 32 A for 12!
-pipes Canary wine, of the fame value, viz. I
A
6 pipes at 28 A 6 s. 8d. - 170 o
And 6 pipes at 25 l. - - 150 oi
T. 2.
■13th.-
Received of George Young, in full for oil,
T. 1. n. 2
PING.
WASTE-BOOK.
James Fuller is broke, and we have con
pounded his debt of 30 /. at 8 /. per pound,
/. .
The compofition which I have recei-?
ved is - - . £ 12
The difcount amounts to - 18 o
T. 1. n. 2.
 24th. 
/ Simon King, John Oker, and myfelf, have
parted the remaining 6 pipes Canary equally a-
mong ourfelves; which, valued at 25 A Jer
pipe, comes to - -
, T- 3'
■27th,
—December 18 th.-
( 12 )
I'-
52?
Sold our 6 pipes beft Canary, for prefent
money, at 29/. 12./.
T. x.
•20th,
The Phoenix is arrived from Cadiz, and Mr
Jones has paid me, in full for freight,
T. 1. n. 1.
•28 th,
Sold our Phoenix toVkx Jones and company,
to pay at 3 months,
T. 1.
—   30th.   
Laid out for the ufe of my family,. fince the
xft of January laft,
F. 13.
JJO U R N*A L,.
6oa
B O O K - K
( i )
E E P I N G.
J O U R N A
—February 2d.—
J O U R N A L.
Edinburgh, the lit of January r 7^9.
Sundries Drs to Stock, 1J407 /.
/. /. d.
Cajh, for ready pioney, 12000 00 o
Linen, for 2000 yards, at7
2/. 6 d. 5 25° 00 0
Indian chints, for 1 c pieces, 7 ^
at 24/. iox. - $ 367 10 0
Ship Britannia, for ^ coil, 348.10 0
John Harris, per note on de* 7
mand, - - j 45 00 o
Thomas Freeman, per bill 7 /
due Feb. 2. - J 96 00 O
George Evans, per bond at
j per cent.
\
2 Stock Dr to Sundries, 156/.
To Jofeph Martin, pn demand, . 36 OG O
To SirjfaacCrifp, due lit of June, 120 oc
Cambrics Dr to Cajh, 112 /.
Paid for 40 pieces, at 2/. 16 s.
joth.■
Duroys Dr to John Vernon, 130/.
Bought 100 pieces, at 26/. to pay at 2
months, ...
  15th- 
Jofeph Martin Dr to Cajh, 36/.
Paid him in full",
Druggets Dr to Sundries, 195/.
To Cajh, in part for 26 pieces, at?
7/. 10/. ' - 5
To Jacob Ruffel, for the reft, on?
demand, - - ^ 97 IO
/. s.
97 IO
-2lft.-
p,Voyage to Jamaica Dr to Sundries, 223 l-
' 11 J. 4 r/.
/. s. d.
To Duroys, for 70 pieces, at 7
26s. - - j 91 00 o
To Jacob Green, for 6 pieces'?
hoiland, at 18/. to pay atC 108 00 o
2 months. - j
To Cajh, paid charges and'
premium, - -
24 11 4
—30th.-
• 3 Jacob Ruffel Dr to Cajh. 97/. 10s.
,i Paid him in full for druggets.
/.
13407
15600
1300c
360c
Broad Cloth Dr to Sundries, 675 /.
( 2 )
/.
To Cafh, in part, for 1000 yards, ,
at ,3,. 6d. - £ 330 c|
To John Harris, for my bill on?
him, - - j 45 o
.3! To Edward Harley, for the reft 7
nt 3 months, 5
- 5th.-
• I Cafh Dr to Thomas -Freeman, 96/.
Received of him in full,
-16th-
Sundries Drs to Cajh, 765/.
Kerfeys, for 90 pieces, at 6/.
Fujlians, for 120 pieces, at 37 /.?
6d. - - 5
l.
540 o
225 c
-25th.-
.1 Cajh Dr to Druggets, 8 1 /. I or.
"Tj Received for 10. pieces, at 8/. 3/.
.^George Young Dr to Broad Cloth, 280 l.
~T Sold him 400 yards, at 14/. to pay at 1 M‘
   4th.
^ John Vernon Dr to Cajh, 17,01.
“t Paid him in full for duroys.
[Sundries Drs to Kerfeys, 5711. ior.
/. r,
1 Cajlo, in part for go pieces, at?
J 6/. 7r. - j 300 00
2 John Keil, for the reft, at 20 days, 271 10
10th. -
jjacob Spencer Dr to Cafh, 1000/.
— Lent him upon bond for 6 months, at 5 per
[cent, per ann.
17 th
^Bills rfceivableDrtoBroadCloth, 141/. 13/.4(7.
~l Sold Jacob Prejlon 200 yards, at 14/. 2d.
and received his bill on Henry Sidney for the
whole, payable at fight,
22d,
Sundries Drs to Broad Cloth, 285 l. 16 r. 8 d.
1. s. d.
Foreign Coin, for 26 moidores, ?
3127/. in part for 400 yds, C 35 02 o
•4; at i 4/. 3-1(7. - - 3
.3 Cajh, in Britijh money, 150 14 8
Bills receivable, for Richard ?
Stone's aflignment on George J 100 OO O
Digby, for the reft, j
-23d.-
•3 Jacob Green Dr to Sundries, 108 /.
To Foreign Coin, for 26 moidores, 7
at26r. 6(7. - - 5
To Cajh, for Britijh money.
Paid him in full for hoiland.
675
9600
765
285
/. r,
34 09
73
— 1080000
1 March
6oi
f 3 )
B O O K - K E
JOURNAL.
-March 23d.-
,\CaJh Dr to Bills receivable, 141/. 13 r. 4d.
"7 Received of Henry Sidney, in full of Jacob
^ Prejlon's bill, - -
—April ift.-
Lockrams Dr to Indian Chints, 50/.
Received 40 pieces, at 25r. in barter, for 2
pieces, at 25 /.
16th.
Sundries Drs to Linen, 133/. 6/. 8 </.
/. s.d.
Cochineal, for 1 C. valued at 108 16 o
Cinnamon, for 641b. at 7/. 8</. 24 10 8
Sundries Drs to Indian Chints, 148/. IO/.
Sundries Drs to John Keil, 271 /. 10/.
/.
Cafh, in full for kerfeys, - - 270 00
Kerfeys, abated him,
-6th.-
Cajb Dr to George Young, 280/.
Received of him in full for broad cloth,
• 10th.-
2710000
j I
280 1000
Received in barter for 1000 yards, at 2/. 8 d.
■ 22d.
Mujlin, for 8 bales, at 12/. 16/.
Caps, for the balance paid me,
102 8
46 2
Received in barter for 6 pieces, at 24/. 15 j
30th.
.^George Dennis Dr to Sundries, 187/. 10s.
To for 100 yards, at 2/. 9</. 137 10
To IndianChints, for 2 pieces, at 25 /. 50 00
Delivered him in barter.
Sundries Drs to George Dennis, 164 16/. 6 d.
,5 Cotton, for 17 bags, containing^
42 C. 2 neat, at 3 /. 1J r. > 159 07 6
perC. - - 3
Claves, for 12 lb. at 9 /. 1 5 09 o ^
Received of him in barter.
-May3d.-
^Edniard Harley Dr to Cafh, 300/.
— Paid him in full for broad cloth,
7th.-
Sufpenfe-accempt Dr to Druggets, 124/.
Sent Nathaniel Napier 16 pieces, defiring him
to take them at 7 /. 15 r. or return them,
3 th
Refnfal of Bargains Dr to Cafh, 2 l 2 /.
Paid to Simon Smart, as a penalty for 'refilling
a bargain of Norwich fluffs,
Vol. T. No. 25.
/. s. d.
50
001
133 0600
148
187
08
John Jeff op his accompt-current Dr to Sundries,
360/. 15/. /.
5 To George Dennis, for 8 tuns lead,'
at 13/. 10/. to pay at 1 month.
To Cafh, for yj^blb. tanned leather,
at 7 d. with cultom, infurance, foe.
To George Alton, for packing, 1 5
To Profit and Lofs, for my commiffion,
George Alton Dr to Cafh, il. $
Paid him in full for packing John Jeffop'% lea¬
ther,
31ft.-
Cafh Dr to John JeJfop his accompt current, 200/.
Drawn my bill on him, for 960 dollars, at
e,od. payable to George Stapleton, or order, va¬
lue received,
■June 3d
.3 John Vernon Dr to Profit and Lofs, 200/.
Tb Left me in legacy by Dr George Friend, and
payable by ditto Vernon, his executor,
8 th.-
Sir Ifaac Crifp Dr t
Paid him in part,
AJVo
PING.
J O U R N
-May 18th.-
A L.
'( 4 )
• 108
r24i 5
■ 2 2d.- -
Cafh, Sol.
-16th.--
.6 Nathaniel Napier Dr to Sufpenfe-accompt, 124 /.
5 Writes me, that he keeps the 16 pieces drug¬
gets fent him the 7 th of ylfby lall, promifing to
pay one half againft the ill of Augujl, and the
other half at Martinmas, the whole being,
-• 18th. -
Sundries Drs to Voyage to Jamaica, 3041. 7
/. /.
Voyage from Jamaica, for goods 7
returned, and charges, £ r95 °7 5
William Boyd my accompt current,^ iQg ^
for balance in his hands,
- 22d.-
5 George Dennis Dr to Cafh, 85/. 6/. (>d.
~ Paid him in full
 29th. 
Sir Ifaac Crifp Dr to Cafh, 40/.
Paid him in full
 July 2d. 
Charges of merchandize Dr to Cafh, 12/.
Paid {hop-rent for \ year, viz. from January
to July t.
5 th
Charges of merchandize Dr to Cafh, 2 /. 12 /. Sd.
Paid my drop keeper his bill of portage, and
other charges,
-9th.-
rrvage from Jamaica Dr to Calh, 97/. 12/.
Paid freight, duty, and other charges here.
Sundries Drs to Voyage from Jamaica, 160/. 131
/. s
Cafh in part for 6 barrels indigo, con- 7 c
ining 7561b. at 4W, 3^. per lb. y “
80 13
John Dyer, for the reft at fix months, 80 00
t 7 N
/. b. /.
36015
85 06
July
602
( 5 )
B O O K - K
JOURNAL.
—July iotb.-
Sitnrfi iet Drs to Voyage from Jamaica, cfl.
^ s. 6 d.
Pymento, for 5 hogfheads, con-'
taining 1535 lb. at 6 >
per lb. -
Sugar, for 5 hogfheads, conO
taining 63 C. at 19 /.>
per C. - ■ J
/. i
38 07 6
Brought into my warehoufe.
15th.-
Cafh Dr to Nathaniel Napier, 62 /.
Received his firft moiety for druggets,
6th.—
Edward Dupper Dr to William Boyd my accompt-
current, 108/. 19/. "jd.
Drawn my bill on him, payable to ditto Dup¬
per, value due by him, at 10 days,
22d,
Voyage to Hamburg Dr to Sundries, 226 /.
17/. 2d.
1. s. d.
To for 5 hogfheads, valued at 59 17 c
To Jacob RuJJel, for 18 pieces'^
cailicoes, at 2/. 15*. to payC 49 10
at 6 months, - j
To Gajhr for 8 fother lead, at h
12 /. 18/. and charges atC 117 10
fhipping, - - J
30th.-
Cajh Dr to Edward Dupper, 108/. 19/. p d.
Received of him, in full of my bill on William
Boyd,
Augufl 3d,
Edward Harley Dr to Cajh, pool.
Lent him upon bond, for 3 months, at 5 per
cent.
oth
Herman Van Beek his accompt of goods, Dr t
Caflo, 14/. 12/. 6 d.
Paid cuftom, freight, and other charges c
them, -
17th.-
Cafh Dr to Herman Van Beek his accompt of\
goods, 420/.
Received for his 14 butts madder, containing
168 C. at 2 /. 10/. per C. - 42O
23d,
Thomas Freeman Dr to Herman Van Beck his
accompt of goods, 54 /.
For his 18 C. flax, at 3 /. to pay at 6 months,
Herman Van Beek his accompt of goods Dr to
Cafo, 1 /. p s. 6 d.
Paid ftorage, brokerage, (be.
Herman Van Beek his accompt of goods Dr to
Profit and Lofs, 12/. $s.
For my commiffion at 2k per cent.
E P
J o
N G.
R N A
( 6 )
.8
Herman Van Beek his acoonipt-current Dr to
Bills payable, 200/,
Accepted his bill on me payable to William Sa¬
bin at 6 days,
8 th,
— Augufl 30th.—
Hertfian Van Beek his accompt current Dr to
Sundries, 138/. ps. 6d.
1. s. d.
To Pymento, for 5 hogfheads, conO
taining 1533 lb. which I value63 19 2
at 10 d. per lb. - - j
To Cajh, for 12 hogflieads tohac- )
co, containing 60 C. at 2\ d.^- po 08 2
perlb. and charges,
To James Wright, for cooperage, 0128
To Profit and Lofs, for my com-
miflion at 2\ per cent.
3 07 6
! ft.—
James Wright Dr to Sundries, 12s. 2d.
To Cajh, in full, - - -
To H. Van Beek his accompt-current, 7
abated, \
—September ift -
Cafh Dr to Ship Britannia, p2 l. 10s.
Received my | of freight from Mr Steel,
3 d.-
Herman Van Beek his accompt current Dr
Cajh, 53 /. 6 r. 8 d.
Remitted him 584 guilders in Jfeph Buchan's
bill on Ralph Roger, value paid here,
oth,
Bills payable Dr to Cajh, 200 /.
Paid William Sabin, in full of Van Beek’s bill
Cajh Dr to Profit and Lofs, 25 /.
Received 6 months intereft of 1000/. lent Ja¬
cob Spencer,
22d.'
John Perkins my accompt current Dr to Voyage
to Hamburg, 233/. 10/.
Received advice that he hath fold my goods,
the neat proceeds amounting to 405 l. 5 /. \id.
Flemifo, exchange at 34 z. 3 d. makes Sterling,
28th
-1 Cajh Dr to Voyage to Hamburg, 21. $ s. 44 d.
Received drawback on my 5 hogfheads fugar
exported, ....
- 30th.
Bills receivable Dr to John Perkins my accompt-
current, 238/. ps. 2id.
Remitted to me in full of 405 /. 5 /. i^ d. ex¬
change at 34z.. in bills, viz,
I. x. d.
One, on John Jlflon, for - 80 00 o
One, on Jacob Finch, for - 120 00 o
One, on Stephen Morden, for - 38 07 84
138
238
0706
°4t
O&ober
( 7 >
% Stuffs Dr to Janus Ward, 2161.
~g Bought 90 pieces, at 2/. 8/. to pay ;
[months, -
L    2 2d.   
^Profit and Lofs Dr to Cajh, 2 l. 2 s.
Paid lofs of a wager on a horfe race,
B O O K - K
JOURNAL.
—Odtober 4th.-
EJivard Hopkins my accompt in company Dr to
Cajh, 60 /.
Paid him my half (hare of 10 hogflteads tobac¬
co in his hands, ...
 9th. 
Sundries Drs to Edward Hopkins my accompt in
company, 72/. "js. c^d.
/. /. d.
Cafh, received in money, - 27 07 4
Bills receivable, for one on R. Ad- ?
> 45 00 o
dijon
Sundries Drs to Cambrics, 120/.
/.
Edouard Hopkins my accompt in
pany, for my half lhare of 40 60 00
pieces, at 3 /. - - j
Edouard Hopkins my accompt pro- ) ,
per, for his half (hare, 5 6° °0
1ith. -
Cajh Dr to Edouard Hopkins my accompt proper,
Tg 60/.
Received for his half fhare of cambrics,
- 20th.
Sundries Drs to Edouard Hopkins my acsompt
company, 62/. 8/.
/.
Cloves, for 72 lb. at 9 /. - 328
Cajh, received in money, - - 30 o
Uh-
8 Ship Phoenix in company ouith George Kent Dr tc
1 Sundries, 640/. 1. s.
To cajb, for my half (hare, - 320 o
To George Kent his accompt in com- 7
pany, for his half (hare, 3 320 0
- 25th:•
Skip Phoenix in company ouith George Kent Di
to Cajh, 16/. 10 r.
Paid the carpenter his bill of repairs,-
George Kent hit accompt proper Dr to ditto. Kent
his accompt in company, 8 l. 5 s.
For his half (hare of repairs.
E E P I N G.
JOURNAL.
( 8 )
603
640
Cajls Dr to Ship Phoenix in Company ouith Georgt
Kent, 22 I. \
Received 1 month’s freight,
secrgc Kent his accompt in company .-Dr to ditto
his accompt proper, ill.
For his half (hare of 1 month’s freight re-,
eived, - ► - - ( u^c
.8 Ship P hie nix in company ouith George Kent Dr
Cajh, 18/.
Paid premium for infuring 600/. to and from
Cadiz,
leorge Kent his accompt proper Dr to ditto his
accompt in company, 9/.
For his half (hare of premium,
•26th.
Sherry in company ouith George Kent Dr to Rich¬
ard Oouen, 236/. IO/.
For 9 pipes, viz. 4 at 26 /. and 5 at 26 /. 10
due on demand, ...
- O&ober 25th -
George Kent his accompt proper Dr to ditto his
accompt in company, 118 /. J r.
For his half (hare of 9 pipes (herry,
7th.--
Cajh Dr to George Kent his accompt proper,
124 /. 10/.
Received of him his half (hare of my di(burfe-
ments on the Phxnix, and alfo his half (hare of
the price of 9 pipes (herry,
Richard Oouen Dr to Cajh, 236/. 10/.
Paid him in full for (herry,
 29th. 
Sundries Drs to. Sherry in Company ouith Georgt
Kent, 145/.
/. /,
Cajh, in part for our 5 bed pipes, at7 qo
29 - - 3
Edouard Turner, for the reft, on de- }   
mand, - - 3 ^
George Kent his accompt in company Dr to ditto
his accompt proper, 72/. 10s.
For his half (hare of 5 pipes (Kerry fold Ed¬
ouard Turner, at 2.9 l.
November ill,
236
118 05 bo
236
,9 Cajh Dr to Sherry in- company ouith George Kent,
110 /. 8 /.
.9 Received for-4 pipes, at 27/. 12/.
George Kent his accompt in company Dr to- ditto
his accompt proper, 55/. 4 s.
For his half (hare of 110/. 8r. received for
4 pipes (herry, ...
9 Cajh, Dr to Edouard Turner, .2$ l.
~ Received of him-in full for.(lierry.
Sherry in company ouith George Kent Dr to Cajh,
3 /. 2 r.
Paid carriage, cellar-rent,
George Kent his accompt proper Dr to ditto his
accompt in company, \ l. \ \ s.
For his half (hare of carriage, cellar-rent, <&c.
<$04
( 9 )
B O O K - K E
JOURNAL.
—November ift.-
.f) Sherry in company with George Kent Dr to Pro-
Jit and Loff, 7/. 8/. 6d.
For my commiffion, at i\per cent,
9Gedrgs Kent his accompt proper Dr to ditto his
■— accompt in company, 3/. 14/. 3 d.
For his half (hare of my commiflion,
■4 th
George Kent his accompt proper Dr to Cajh, 122/.
8 /. f)d.
Paid him in full for his half fhare of neat pro¬
ceeds on fherry, - ^
-8th.
.yCafio Dr to Sundries, 403 /.
Hotife expences Dr to Cajh, 40/.
Paid one year’s rent of my dwelling-houfe,
12th. -
Sundries Drs to Gcerge Evans, 300/.
Cajh, received in compolition of his debt, 1800
Profit and Lofs, abated him, - 1200
/.
To Edward Harley, for principal
lent him the 6th of Jugujl^ 400 00
lad, - - - 0
To Profit and Lofs, for 3 months ?
intereft, at 5 per cent. - j
5 00
nth.-
Csfh Dr to Nathaniel Napier, 62/.
Received of him in full,
15th.-
Voyage to Lijhon in company with Simon King
and John Oker Dr to Sundries, 995 /.
To Simon King his accompt proper,')
for 80 pieces ferge, at 5 /. 10 /. 3 ^
To John Oker his accompt proper, l 2gQ oo
for 70 pieces frize, at 4 /. 5
To Stuffs, for 90 pieces, at 2/. 10/. 225 00
To Capo, for charges and premium, 50 00
/. |r.
d.
Simon King his accompt proper Dr to ditto his
accompt in company, 331/. 13-f* ^d.
For his y fhare of the voyage to Lijhon,
John Oker, ditto,
7 th.-
Simon King his accompt proper Dr to Sundries,
10SI. 6s. 8 d.
1. s. d.
To J. Oker his accompt proper
paid by him,
To Cajh, paid by me.
5T 13 4
56 13 4
06
PING.
J O U R N A
—November 22d.-
( 10 )
I l.\s.\d.
Oil in company with Simon King and John
Oker Dr to George Wood, 531/.
Bought 18 tuns, at 29/. iqs. due on de¬
mand, ...
Simon King his accoompt proper Dr to ditto his
accompt in company, 177/.
For his \ (hare of 18 tuns oil,
John Oker, ditto,
3000000
620
Sundries Drs to S. King his accompt pro¬
per, 57/.
/.
John Oker his accompt proper, paid 7
to him, - - £ 23 00
Cajh, paid to me, - - 34 00
304
04
—23 th.-
isorge Wood Dr to Sundries, 331/.
/.
To Simon King his accompt pro-
per, paid by him, - ^ 120 00
To John Oker his accompt proper, 7
paid by him, - - £ 200
To Cajh, paid by me, - 211
-30th.-
James Fuller Dr to Oil in cotnpany with S.
King and J. Oker, 30/.
Sold him 1 tun, to pay at 14 days,
Simon King his accompt in company Dr. to ditto
his accompt proper, 10/.
For his 4 lhare,
John Oker, ditto,
•December 2d.-
Sundries Drs to Oil in cosnpany with S. King
and J. Oker, 213/. 10/.
/.
in part for 7 tuns, at 30/. 10/. 113 10
GeorgeToung, for the reft, at to days, 100
Simon King his accompt in company Dr to ditto
his accompt proper, 71/. 3/. 4 d.
For his 4 ftiare of feven tuns of oil fold,
John Oker, ditto,
—7th.-
Canary in company with S. King and J. Oker
Dr to Oil in company with ditto, 320 /.
Received 12 pipes, viz. 6 pipes at 28/. 6/.
id. and 6 pipes at 25/. in barter for 10 tuns;
at 32/. - - -
3th,
ajh Dr to George Toung, 100/
Received of him, in full for oil in company,
7
7103
(II)
9 Cajh Dr to Canary in company 'with Simon King
and John Oker, 177/. 12/.
Received for 6 pipes, at 29/. rs/. [177
.10 Simon King his accompt in company Dr to'
Txo ditto his accompt proper, 59/. 4/.
For his-j-(hare of 177/. 12/. received for
Canary, ....
B O O K - K E
JOURNAL.
[ l. s. d.
—December i8th.-
John Oker, ditto,
—20th.-
Sundries Drs X.0 James Fuller, 30/.
1
Cafh, received in compofition of his ?
debt, - - [ 12 00
Oil in company with S. King and') „
John Oker, abated him, 3 1
.10 Simon King his accompt-proper Dr to ditto his
.10' accompt in company, 61.
For his fhare of 18 /. abated
~~{o J°hn Oker, ditto.
—24th.-
Sundries Drs to Canary in company with S.
King and J. Oker, 150/.
S. King his accompt in company, for^
2 pipes taken to himfelf, as his> 50 o©
fhare of what remains, J
J. Oker his accompt in company, for 7
ditto, - - l 5° 00
Canary, for 2 pipes retained, as my 7
fhare, - - 5 S° 00
Vol. I. No. 26.
PING.
JOURNAL.
( 12 )
Cajh Dr to Ship Phoenix in company wit/.
George Kent, 22/.
Received in full for freight
George Kent his accompt in cotnpany Dr to ditto
his accompt-proper, 11 /.
For his half fhare of 22/. received as freight.
• 28th
Mr Jones .and company Dr to Ship Phoenix in
company with George Kent, 700/.
Sold ditto fhip, to pay at 3 months,
George Kent his accompt in company Dr to ditto
his accompt proper, 350/.
For his half fhare,
 30th,
Houfe-expenses Dr to Cajh, 200/.
Expended fince the ift oiJanuary laft,
—December 27th.-
s.'d.
7 O
LEDGER
6o6
BOOK-KEEPING.
D G
R,
1769.
The INDEX, or ALPHABET.
a!
Fol.
Alton (George) 5
B.
Fol.
Broad cloth 3
Bills receivable
Boyd (William) 7 6
my acct-curt 3
Bills payable 8
Balance
Fol.
Cafh 1—1
4Chints (Indian)
Crifp (Sirlfaac)
Cambrics
Cochineal
Cinnamon
Cotton
Cloves
Charges of mer- 7
chandize 3
Canary in comp. 1
Canary 1
Fol.
9 Duroys
Druggets 3
Dennis (George) 5
Dyer (John) 7
Dupper (Edward) 7
Evans (George)
f:
Fol.
Freeman (Thom.) 2
Fuftians
Foreign coin
Fuller (James) 10
G.
Fol.
Green (Jacob) 3
H.
Fol.
Harris (John) 2
Harley (Edward) 3
Hopkins (Edw.)~
my accompt in
comp.
Hopkins (Edw.)7g
myacct proper 3
Houfe-expences 9
K.
Jeflbp(John)his7
acct current 3
Jones (Mr) and 7
company 3
Fol.
3
Kerfeys
Keil (John)
Kent (George)}
his accompt C
in comp. j
Kent (Geo.) his 7
acct proper 3
King (Simon) ^
his accompt C 10
proper }
King (Simon)}
his accompt C 10
in comp. )
Linen
4 Lockrams
M.
Fol\ Fol.
1 Martin (Jofeph)
4Muflin j
N.
Fol
Napier (Nath.) 6
O.
Fol.
Owen (Richard) 9
Oker (John) his 7
acct proper 5
Oker (John) his 7
acct in comp. 3 '
Oil in company 10
P.
Fol.
Profit and Lofs 6
Pymento
Perkins (John) 7
:ct-curt 3
R.
Fol.
Ruflel (Jacob) 3
Refufal of bargains 5
,b)
S.
Ship Britannia
Stock
Spencer (J;
Sufpenfe-ac
Sugar
Stuffs
Ship Phoenix ii
company
Sherry in comp.
Fol.
Turner (Edward) 9
Y.
Vernon (John)
Voyage to Jam.
3 Wright (James)
3 Ward (James)
Fol.
Young (George) 4
Z.
Voy. from Jam. 6Wood (George) 10
Voy. to Hamburg 7
Van Beek(H.)his 7
acct of goods 3 '
Van Beek his ac-7 7
compt on time 3 '
Van Beek his ac-7 „
compt-current 3 '
Voy. to Lifbon 7 Q
‘ 1 company 3_ 
L E
B
D G
1769;
Jan.
Feb.
Cajb,
Dr
Apr.
May
July
Aug
Sep!
1769
J*
1769
17-69
To Stack, for ready money,
To Thomas Freeman, received in full.
To Druggets, for 10 pieces, at 8/. 3.
To Kerfeys, in part for 90 pieces, at
61. 7 s
To Broad Cloth, in part for 400 yds.
To Bills receivable of Henry Sidney
in full.
To John Keil, in full for kerfeys,
To George Young, in full for broad
cloth,
To Indian chints, a balance in barter,
To 7- JeJJ6P his accompt current,
9 To Voyage from Jamaica, in part fo
indigo.
To Edward Dupper,\n full of my bill
To Nathaniel Napier, in part fo
druggets,
17 To H. V. Seek his accompt of goods.
To Ship Britannia, for freight.
To Profit and Lofs, for 6 months
interelt of 1000/.
To Voyage to Hamburg for drawback
on fugar,
9 To Edward Hopkins my accompt in
company.
To Edward Hopkins my accompt pro¬
per,
o To Edward Hopkins my accompt in
company,
To Ship Phoenix in company, for 1
month’s freight,
K - K E E
X. d. I
PING.
LEDGE
607
12000
96
8
To Stock, at is. 6d. for
To Profit and Lofs, gained.
Yards,
2000
Indian chintst Dr
To Stock, at 24/. 10/. for
To Profit and Lofs, gained.
Pieces
' 15
Ship Britannia,
1 To Stock,, for part,
To.Profit and Lofs, gained.
4482
300
150
*4
27c
280
46
200
80
108
62
420
72
05.04-r
o7'°4
i ;
60 0000
30 OOjOO
1769!
Jan. 6
( * )
Contra
Cr
8y Cambrics, for 40 pieces, at 2 /. l6x,
By Jofeph Martin, in full,
By Druggets, inpart for 2 6pieces, at 7/. 10/J
By Voy. to Jamaica, paid charges and prem,
30 By J. Ruffel, in full for druggets,
By-SrsWC/j^in part for jooo yds,ati3r.6rf.
By Sundries, as per Journal,
oBy John Vernon, in full for duroys,
By J.Spencer, lent him for 6 M°. at y per c,
By Jacob Green, in part for holland,
By Edward Harley, in full,
By Refufal of bargains,
By J. Jejfop his acct-curt. for leather,
By George Aiton, in full.
By Sir Ifaac Crifp, in part,
By George Dennis, in full
By Sir Ifaac Crifp, in full,
By Charges of mer. paid 4 year’s fhop-rent
By Charges of mer.. paid portage, fee.
9 By Voyage from Jamaiea, for charges paid,
By Voy. to Hamburg, for lead and charges,
By Edward Harley, lent him at 5 per cent.
By H. V. Seek his acct of goods, for charges,
2 3 By /f. T. Beek his accompt of goods,
30 By H. V.Beek bis acct- current, for tobacco,
By James Wright, in full,
iBy H. V Beek his acct-curt, remitted him,
By Bills Payable,
By Edward Hopkins my acct in company.
By Profit and Lofs, paid lofs of a wager,
By Ship Phoenix in company, for my { /hare,
By Ship Phoenix in company, paid repairs,
By New accompt.
1769
Contra, Cr
By Sundries, in bart. at 2/. %d. for
By George Dennis, at ys. yd. for
1769
Apr.
coo
00 oq
1769
Sept.
Yards.
1000
iooc
Contra,
Cr
c By Lockrams, in barter, at 2.5/.for
2 By Sund. in bart. at 24/. 1 ys. for
cBy George Dennis, at 25/.
By Balance, remaining at 24/. 10/.
Contra, C
By Cafo, for my .* of freight,
By Balance, for my \ remaining.
4or
i'oo
73 1
3000000
1050
80 00 0
8506I06
53
200
60
320
969
14482
5000
r48
5°
122
12 08
12 OO
1C 08
42B0000
Johst-c
6c8
1769
Jan
1769
Jan.
Aug.
To Stock, per bill due February 2.
2 3 T’o H. Van Bcek his accompt of goods.
at 6 months.
1769
Jan.
1769
1769
Jan,
1769
>
1769
1769
Jan.
( ^ )
B O O K - K E
LEDGER,
I John Harris, Dr
iTo Stock, per note on demand,
6-
George Evans, Dr
To Stock, per bond at 5 per cent.
Thomas Freeman,
Dr
Stock, Dt
To Jofeph Martin, on demand,
To Sir Ifaac Crifp, due June 1.
To Balance, the neat of my eftate.
Jofeph Martin,
To Cafh, paid him in full.
Sir Ifaac Crifp,
8 To Cajh, paid him in part,
9 To Cafh, paid him in full.
Cambrics, Dr
6 To Cafh, at 2/. 16/. for
To Profit and Lofs, gained
Pieces.
40
Duroys, Dr
To John Vernon, at 26/. for
Pieces.
100
E P I N G.
LEDGER. ( 2 1
36
120
13474
13630
1769
OO Feb.
1761
00 Feb.
1769
00 Nov.
1769
Jan.
1769
J‘
1769
00 Jan.
1761
oa.
176
00 Jan
Contra, Cr
By Broad Cloth, for my bill on him.
Contra, Cr
By Cajh, received in full,
By Balance, for Van Peek's flax,
Contra, Cr
By Sundries, as per Journal,
Contra, Cr
By Cajh, for ready money,
Linnen, 2000 yards, at 2/. 6d.
By Indian Chints, 15 pieces, at 24/.
10/. -
By Ship Britannia, forepart,
By John Harris, per note on demand,
By Thomas Freeman, per bill due Feb. 2,
By George Evans, per bond at 5 per
cent. -
By Profit and Lofs, gained fince the ill
of January laft,
Contra,
By Stock, on demand
Contra,
By Stock, dated June 1.
Contra,
By Sundries, at 3 /. for
Cr
Pieces.
40
Contra,
By Voyage to Jamaica, at 7
26/. for - 5
My Balance, remaining, at 26/.
Cr
Pieces
96:00
5 Joe
12000
250
367
348
45
96
223
13630
00
1000
lOjOO
oo;oo
00,00
3600100
i3ooooo
John
3 )
1769
Mar
June 3
1769
Jan. j
1769
Jan. 7,0
John Vernon, Dr
To Cajh, paid him in full,
To Profit and Lofs, for Dr Friend''.
legacy,
1769
Mi
1769
Feb.
'■1769
iMay
\^US-
Voyage to Jamaica,
■ 'o Sundries, as per Journal,
To Profit and Lofs, gained.
I1769'
UFeb. 16
r-
1769
'feb. n
O O K - K E
LEDGER.
E P I N G.
LEDGER.
( 3 )
Druggets, Dr
'o Sundries, at 7/. 10/. for
d Profit and Lofs, gained.
Jacob Rujfel,
. o Cajh, paid him in full,
ro Balance, due to him.
Jacob Green, Dr
o Sundries, paid him in full,
Broad Cloth,
Dr
'o Sundries, at 13/. 6d. for
To Profit and Lofs, gained
Yards
1000
Edward Harley, 1
To Cafh, paid him in full,
"o Cafh, lent him at 5 per cent.
Kerfeys,
Dr
To Cafh, at 6 /. for
To John Keil, abated -
To Profit and Lofs, gained.
Pieces.
90
Fujlians, Dr
o Cafh, at 37/.. (id. for
I Pieces.
| 120
3000
200 (
97 1C04
08
223 12
Bodj
3o4°7
0800
67500
32110
1769
Jan. 10
1769
Feb.
May
1769
Jan.
July
5 By Druggets, on demand,
22 By Voyage to Hamburg, due at fix M°.
1769
Contra, Cr
Sundries, as per Journal,
1769
Jan.
Contra, Cr
21 By Voyage to Jamaica, to pay at 2 Mc
1769
Mar
540 00 00
6 3°
1769
Feb.
Nov.
1769
Mar
Contra, Cr
By Duroys, to pay at 2 months,
By Balance, due by him,
Contra, Cr
By Cafh, at 8 /. 3 /. for
By Sufpenfe-accompt, at 7 /.
iy/. for
Contra,
Cr
By George Young, at 14/. for
17 By Bills receivable, at 14/. 2d.
| for ...
22V>y Sundries, at 14/. 3^^. for
Cr
Contra,
By Broad Cloth, due at 3 months,
8 By Cafh, for principal.
Yards.
400
200
400
609
0000
0000
4141
{285
g 30000 00
^oooo'oo
Contra, ■ Cr
By Balance, remain, at 3 7/. 6d.
t 7 P
Vox,. I. No. 26.
3
6io
B O O K - K
( 4 ) LEDGER.
1769^
Mar, 1
Dec.l 2
1769
Mar
J769
Mar
1769
Mat
Sept,
1769
Ma>
1769
■dpr.
1769
1769
dpr.
George Young, Dr
To Brand Clcth, to pay at 1 month,
To Oil in company, due at 10 days.
Fo l. Lr. d.
E E P I N G.
LEDGER. ( 4 )
3 2800000
10 1000000
80
John Keil, Dr
4 To Kerf eye, to pay at 20 days.
Jacob Spencer, Dr
To Cajlo, lent him at 5 per cent.
Bills receivable,
Dr
7 To Broad Cloth, for 1 on Henry Sidney
2JTo Broad Cloth, for 1 on George Dighy,
3°pro J. Perkins my accompt-current, for
1 on John Aljlon, L. 80 00 00
1 on Jacob Finch, 120 Oo 00
1 on Stephen Morden, 38 07 08-y^
9iTo Ed. Hopkins my accompt in cunp.l
for x on Rich. Addifon,
Foreign coin, Dr j
Moidores,
— To BroadCloth at 27/. for | 26
Lockrams, Dr
To Indian Chints, in barter
at 25 s.
Pieces
40
Cochineal, Dr
!d 'To Linen, in barter.
Cinnamon, Dr
16T0 Linen, in barter at 7/. Zd.
238
1769
Apr.' 6
Dec. 13
1769
Apr.
1769
Mar
1769
Mar
Contra,
By Cafh, received in full.
By Cajh, received in full,
Contra, Cr
By Sundries, as per Journal,
Contra,
By Balance, due by him,
Contra,
Cr
By Cafh, received of Henry Sidney in full.
By Balance remaining,
1 on George Digby, L. 100 00 00
1 on J. Alfton, 80 00 00 >
1 on J. Finch, 120 00 00 >
1 on Stephen Morden, 3 8 07 08 J N
1 on Rich. Addifon, 45 00 00 ^
Contra, Cr
• Jacob Green, at 26 r
6i. for
By Profit and Lofs, loft.
Moidores.
26
Contra, Cr j
I Pieces.
By 2?tf/<r«c£ remaining, at 25/. 1 40
Contra, Cr
By Balance remaining,
Contra, Cr
By Balance, remain, at 7/. Zd.
28000
10000
380
38?
BOOK-KEEPING.
611
1769
Apr.
1769
Apr.
Jane
1769
Apr.
1769
Apr.
on.
1769
May
Cotton, Dr
30T0 G.Dennis, at 3/. 15/. perC.
1769
1769
May
176c
(5 )
LEDGER.
LEDGER.
Muflin, * Dr
To Indian Cbints, at 12 /. 16 s.
for - - -
George Dennis,
To Sundries, as per Journal,
To Cajh, paid him in full.
C.Q.
42 2
Cloves, Dr
To George Dennis, at 9/. 1 d. for
To E Hopkins, wy acconipt in
company, at 9 /. for
Sufpenfe-accompt, Dr
To Druggets, fent Nathaniel Napier.
16 pieces,
Kefufal o f Bargains, Dr
To Cajh, paid penalty for refufing Nor-
•wich duffs, -
John JeJJbp his acct-curt. Dr
To Sundries, as per Journal,
George Alton, Dr
2 2 To Cajl), paid him in full,
176c
Apr.
06 Ma>
509
32 oS
_i 
37/7
360
1769
June
1769
May
1769
May
By Balance, remaining,
12 /. 16 /.
Sundries, asJournal,
By J. JeJfop his acct-curt, at 1 month.
Contra, Cr
By Balance, remaining, at3/.iyr.
( 5 ) ,
Contra,
64
5 108
C.Q,!
42 2 11 159
Contra, Cr
By Balance, remaining, at 9/. id.
    and at 9 s.
2 II S
32
Contra,
By Nathaniel Napier,
Cr
Contra,
By Profit and Lofs, lod,
By Cajh, for my bill, value received,
By Balance, due by him.
Contra,.
Cr
6 124
606
>000
606
1 2000000
1116015 00
360.1
18 By J. JeJfop his acct- curt, for packing, 5
6.12
( 6 )
B O
LEDGE
O K - K E
R.
N° 38-
1769
oa.
Nov.
Profit and Lofs,
22 To Cajh, paid lofs of wager.
To George Evans, abated,
To Foreign Coin, loft,
To Refufal of Bargains,
To Voyage from Jamaica,
To Charges of merchandize.
To Houfe expences,
To Stock, neat gain fince ift Jat.
1769
Nathaniel Napier, B
6 To Sufpenfe-accompt, i ft Augufi and
Martinmafs,
1769
June
July
Voyage from Jamaica, Dr
8 To Voyage to Jamaica, for returns,
p To Cajh, for charges here.
1769
Jum
William Boyd my acct-curt, Dr
jg To Voyage to Jamaica, balance in his
hands, ...
6j 34
l\
9240
2 223
'637 06
08
0000
03 Sept.
Nov.
P I N
LED
G
G E R.'
1769
00 May
June
Aug.
1769
Aug.
00 Nov.
1769
03 Jul
176c
July
( 6 ).
Contra,
Cr
By J. JeJfop his accompt-current, for
my commiffion,
3 By John Vernon, for a legacy,
23 By //. V. Beek his accompt of goods, for
my commiflion, ...
By //. V. Beek his accompt-current, for
commiflion, at 2^,
By Cajh, for 6 months int. of 1000/.
By Sherry in comp, for my commiflion,
By Cajh, for 3 months intereft of 400/.
By Linen, gained.
By Indian Chints, gained,
By Ship Britannia, gained.
By Cambrics, gained,
By Druggets, gained,
By Voyage to Jamaica, gained, -
By Broad Cloth, gained
By Kerfeys, gained,
By Pymento, gained,
By Voyage to Hamburg, gained,
By John Perkins my accompt-current.
By Ed. Hopkins my acct in comp, gained,
By Stuffs, gained,
By Ship Phoenix in company, gained,
By Sherry in company, gained.
By Oil in company, gained,
By Canary in company, gained.
Contra,
By Cajh, in part,
By Cajh, in full,
Cr
Cr
By Sundries, ss per Journal,
By Sundries, as per Journal,
By Profit and Lofs,
Contra, Cr
By Edouard Dupper, due at 10 days, ! 7.108
/• lr. d.
s i°;°5
3 200 00 <
0706
0000
0806
627
1 62
9 62
6 34
08
17 08 j.
7o8£
04
907
I
1769
July
1769
July
1769
July
Pymento, Dr
10 To Voy. from Jamaica, at (idfox
To Profit and Lofs, gained.
1769
July
1769
July
1769
July
1769
Aug,
1769
Aug.
Sept
(.7 )
B O O K - K E
LEDGER.
Charges of Merchandize, Dr
ToCafb, for 4 year’s fliop-rent,
5 To Cajh, paid portage, isc.
John Dyer, Dr
To Voyage from Jamaica, due at 6 Mo.
C.
10 To Voy. from Jamaica,ztU)sfox | 63
Edward Dupper, Dr
15 To JVil. Boyd, my acc. curt, at todays,
lb
1535
Sugar,
Dr
Voyage to Hamburg,
To Sundries, as per Journal,
To Profit and Lofs, gained.
Herman Van Beek his~>
accompt of goods, J
Dr
o To Cajh, paid charges,
23 To Cajh, for ftorage, brokerage, <bc.
To Profit and Lofs, for my commif. at
— To H. Van Beek his accompt on time,
due by T. Freeman,
— To ditto his accompt-current, in my hand:
Herman Van Beek his l
accompt on time, J
To Balance, outftanding,
Herman Van Beek hisl ^
accompt current, 3
To Sundries, as per Journal
To Bills payable, for 1 to IV. Sabin,
6 days - -
To, Cajh, remitted him,
To Balance, due to him.
/. \s. d.
E P I N G.
L E D G E R. ( 7)
07 06
08
54oc
91
394 if 38
3
1769
Aug
1769
July
1769
July
1769
Sept'
1769
1769
Aug
1769
Aug.
Contra,
By Profit and Lofs,
Contra,
By Balance due by him,
By H. V. Beek his accompt- 7
current, at \od. - j
lb.
1535
Contra,
Cr
C.
By Voy. to Hamburg, at ipr. for j 63
Contra,
By Cafio, received in full.
By John Perkins my accompt current,
By Cajh, for drawback on fugar.
7 By Cajh, for 14 butts madder,
23By Tho. Freeman, for iS C. Hax, due
at months, - -
Contra, Cr
23'By H. V. Beek his accompt of goods,
due by T. Freeman,
By H. Van Beek his accompt of goods, *
By Janies Wright, abated.
7 Q.
6*3
/. d.
14 12
80 00 30
63 19 02
59 17 00
108 1907
235 IOOO
8 05 04£
243x3044
4200c 00
54 00 oo
4740000
540D00
391IJOO
o'60 o3 ~
39' 5PS
Vox.. I. No. 26.
<5i4
( 8 )
B O O K - K E
LEDGER.
N<
1769
■dug
1769
Sepl,
1769
Sept,
Bills payable, Dr
ToCaJh, paid JYil. Sabin VanBeei’s bill
54-
1769
Grt.
1769
Oil.
1769
Oil.
9
56
Stuffs, Dr I Pieces.
21 To James Ward, at 2/. 8j. for I 90
To Prefit and Lofs, gained,
1769
Cfl.
Dec,
Nov..
i).cc.
"fames Wright,
To Sundries, as per Journal,
Dr
John Perkins my \ Dr
acct-cw r nt, S
T'o Voy. toHarnb. at 34/. $d.
To Profit and Lfs
F emijh.
1. s. d.
EdiuardHopkins my ac- 7
I compt in company, 5 1
a,ToCajh, paid 4 lliare of lohhds tobacco,
yToCambries, formyi-ibareof 4ops.at 3/.
To Profit and Lofs, gained.
Edward Hopkins my ac-1 ^
compt proper, 5 r
T 0 Cambrics, for his 4 ihare of 40 ps. at 3 /.
fames Ward,
To Balance due to him.
58
Ship Phoenix in company 1 j,
1769 with George Kent, 5 r
03. 22T0 Sundries, as/>?r Journal,
2 J To Cafh, paid repairs
■To Cajh, paid premium on 600/.
To G.Kent his acct in Co. for his 4 gained,
To Profit and Lofs, for my half gained,
George Kent his accompli jyr
in company, 5
25 To ditto his accompt proper for- his 4
1 month’s freight,
29 To ditto his accompt-proper, for 4 of 5
pipes of (berry.
To ditto his acct prop, for 4 of 4 pip.fherry
2‘]To.ditto his acct prop. for4 of freight,
28. To ditto his accompt-proper for 4. of
P.l.ttnix, fold,
60
do oc
216
9 oo
o84
o84
E P I N G
LEDGER, ( 8 )
1769 Contra, Cr j
Hug. 30 By H. V.Beek hisacct-cur. for cooperage,'
1765
Sept.
1769
Sept.
[■ Contra, Cr
3 By H. V. Beek his acc-cur. for 1 at 6 days,
loTy Bills receivable,e.y.dn.. 7
at 34/. for - - J
1769
03.
1769
03.
1769
03.
Dec.
5:00
15 00
1769
03.
000
01,00
00.0,0
3500000
499 1400
Contra,
\Sy Sundries, as per Journal,
By Sundries-, as/w Journal,
F!emijh.
1. s. d.
405 5 o-J
Cr
Contra,
By Cafh, received in full,
Contra,
Cr
By Voyage to Lisbon in corn- 7 | 90
party, at 2/. lO/. for y |  
Contra, Cr
By Stuffs, to pay at 3 months,
Contra,
2 yBy Cafh for 1 month’s freight,
2TBy Cafh, for 1 month’s freight,
28 By Mr Jones and company, fold
Contra,
Cr
4 33s
7207
62 ‘
By Ship Phoenix in Co. for his 4 (hare,
By ditto his acct proper, for half repairs,| 9
By ditto his acct prep, for his 4 of prena.'
By ditto hisacctproper, for his half of 9'
pipes (herry, - - - j 9
By ditto his acct proper, for his half
carriage, <bc.. - | 9
By ditto his acct prop, for his \ of commif.l 9
By.SLPZfEw*rads.forhis4fharegained,: 8
By Sherry in comp, for his half gained, j 9
2200 00
22 00J00
7000000
320,0000
8:05,00:
9'00 00
118
3 MO?
341500
40309
499140a
00
1269
George Kent bis acct prop. Dr
To dit. his acct in com. for hi half repairs,
To dit. his ac. incom. for his half premium
26 To dit. his ac. in com. for ^ of 9 pipes fnen y,
To dit. his acct in comp, for 4 carriage.
To dit. his acct in comp, for his 4 °f com.
4T0 Cayft paid him,
To Balance, due to him.
Dr
Cafh,
^STo old accompt, ...
George Kent his accompt proper,
9 To Sherry in co. in part for 5 pipes, at 29 /.
To Sherry in com. for 4 pipes, at 27/. 12 s.
To Ed. Turner, in full for fherry.
To Sundries, as per Journal,
To George Evans, received in compofition.
To N. Napier, in full for druggets,
To S. King his acct prop, received of him,
To Oil in co. in part for 7 tuns, at 30/. 10/.
To George Young, in full,
To Canary in co. for 6 pipes, at 29 /. 12 r.
To J. Fuller, t ecJ in compof11 of his debt.
To Ship Phoenix in co. for 1 M° freight,
:,3
( 9 )
BOOK
LEDGER.
- K E E
Fo\ l. \s.\d.
I N G.
L E D G
( 9 )
Sherry in company with'} n
George Kent,
To Richard Owen, at 26/. for
26/. 10/. for
To Cajh, paid carriage, 6c.
To Profit and Lofis, for my 7
commif. at 4 per cent. y
To Geo. Kent his accompt ini
company for his 1 gained, y
To Prefit and Lofis, for my 7
half gained, - - y
Pipe
7 To
Richard Given,
Cajh, paid him in full.
9 To
Edvjard Turner-, Dr
Sherry on company, on demand,.
Houfe-expences, Dr
To Cafih, paid-1 year’s rent of my dwel-
ling-houfe, » - - -
i To Cajh, laid out fince the ill of Jan. laft.
Voyage to Lifibon in com. ivith 7, n
Simon King andjohn Okcr, y 1Jr
To Sundries as per Journal,
OJjOO
0000
os'oo
624
9698
177
1 2 OO
2 2 OO
ii18400
9 4°
9 200
1769]
Oil. '25
27
Dec.
00 03-
[OOO
0000
o8bo
1769
Oil.
034
Contra., Cr
By dit. his acct. in comp, for ids 4 freight.
QyCaJl), for his half of dilburfements and
fherry,
Ry dit. his acct in co Tot 5 pipes fherry
By fli'/. his acct in co. for 4 of 4 pipes fherry.
By ditto bis acct in comp, for 4 of freight.
By dit. his acct in co. for 4 of Phoenix fold
Contra,
Cr
By Ship Phoenix in company, for premium
By Richard Owen, in full for fherry,
By Sherry in company, paid carriage, <bc.
By Geo. Kent his accompt proper, paid him.
By Houfie-expences, paid one year’s rent,
iBy Voyage to LifOon in company,
7|By Simon King his accempt proper,
^ IBy George Wood, paid him,
o By Houfie-expences, lince the i (1: Jan. laft.
By Balance, remaining in my hands,
Contra,
1769
00 Oil. 29 By Sundries, 3129/. for
00 1 By Cajh, 3127/. 12/. for
1769
OH.
Contra, Cr
26 By Sherry in company, on demand.
1769
00 oo" Nov.
0000
oobo
Pipe.
Contra,
By Cajk, received in full.
Contra,
By Profit and Lofis,.
By Siw. King his acct in comp,\ remaining
By J. Oker his acct in comp. 4 remaining,
By Balance, for my 4 remaining^
6lS.
1. s. d.
I I OO DO-
124 IOO°-
72 10 OO
J5 04 OO
ii 00 oar
35:000 00
6240400
1800 00
236 to Opt
3 2 00-
122 0809
40 00,00 •
50 oo'oo
5613O4
2 I I OO OO
20C OOOO
10246 '6 02-4
n (84 ooo34\
14 5 oc 00
no08 00
25508 00
236 1000
2 5 00|0O
24c 0000
r304
; 33i 1304
33i13P4,
; 99<[oo;co~-
6i6
BOOK-KEEPING.
' ( IO )
LEDGER.
N° 67
1769:
Novels
Simon King, his acct prop. Dr
1769
Nov
1769
vVw
Dec.
1769
Nov
Dec.
1769
/Vw.
1769
To ditto his accompt in comp, for his y of
voyage to Li/bon,
To Sundries, as per Journal,
To dit. his ac. in co. forhis-J of 18 tuns oil.
20PT0 dft. his ac. inco. for his of 18/. abated,
To Balance, due to him,
’John Oker his accompt-proper, Dr
To ditto his accompt in comp, for his y of
voyage to Lijbon,
To dit. his ac. in co. for his J of 18 tuns oil.
To Simon King his acct-prop. paid to him.
To dit. his ac. in co. for his y of 18/. abated.
To Balance, due to him,
Simon King his acct in co. Dr
To dit. his ac. pr. for his of 1 tun oil fold,
Fo dit. his ac. pr. for his y of 7 tuns oil fold,
Fo ditto his accompt-proper, for his y of
6 pipes canary fold,
To Canary in co. for 2 pipes taken to himfelf,
To Voy, to Lijbon in co. for his ^ remaining,
John Oker his acct in comp. Dr
jojTo dit. his ac. pr. for his y of 1 tun oil fold,
2T0 dit. his ac. pr. for his of 7 tuns oil fold,
(To ditto his accompt-proper, for his y of
18! 6 pipes canary fold,
24T0 Canary in co. for 2 pipes taken to himfelf,
1T0 Voy. to Lijbon in co. for his \ remaining,
[Dr
\ Oil in co. 'with Simon'
! King and J. Oker,
22 To George Wood, at 29/. TO/, for
20To James Fuller, abated him,
To5. K. hisac. in co. forhis-j-gained
Toy. 0. hisac. inco. for his y gained
To Profit and Lofs, tor my
George Wood, '
2^0 Sundries, asJournal,
James Fuller, Dr
3o!To Oil in company, to pay at 14 days,
io83i ..
;io8o6
to 17700
to 60
11,13407
757
10331
10177
23
00 00
00 00
59
5°
563
to' 30
LEDGER.
( 10 )
1769
Nov.
1769
Nov.
1769
Nov.
1769
Nov.
1769
00 Nov.
00 Dec.
I769)
00 Nov. 22
Contra,
Cr
i5jBy Voy. to Lijbon in co. for 80 pieces ferge,
2 J By George Wood, paid to him,
—jBy Sundries, as per Journal,
3<yRydit.kisac. /'«ca. forhisy of itunoilfold,
2;By dit. his ac. in co. for his-f of 7 tuns oil fold,
iSBy ditto his accompt in company, for his
y of 6 pipes canary fold,
Contra,
Cr
'By Voy. to Lijhon inco. for 70 pieces frieze,
By S. King his accompt-proper.
By George Wood, paid to him,
By dit. his ae. in co. for his y of 1 tun oil fold,
By dit.his ac.inco. for his ’of 7 tuns oil fold,
By ditto his accompt in comp, for his \ of
6 pipes canary fold.
Contra,
By dit. his ac. pr. for his J of voy. to Lijbon,
By ditto his acct prop, for his y of 18 tuns
oil bought, . - - -
20 By dit. his ac. prop, for his y of 18/. abated,
By Oil in company, for his * gained,
By Canary in company, for his \ gained.
Contra,
Cr
5 By dit. his ac. pr. for his y of voy. to Lijbon,
22 By ditto his acct prop, for his -f of 18 tuns
oil bought.
By dit. his ac. prop, for his y of 18/. abated,
By Oil in company, for his y gained,
By Canary in comp, for his y gained.
By James Fuller,
By Sundries, as per Journal,
By Canary in co. in barter at 32/. for
*769
Dec. 2o|J
Contra,
Tuns
7
9 4400000
12000 00
57
Contra
By Oil in company, on demand.
Cr
Contra,
By Sundries, as per Journal,
331
0000
0000
0304
>4jO°
04 00
10 08
1608
:oo8 I
00 00
177
6
4 1608
2 tO< "
522
30
13
32000
00 00
00 p
563
08
(II)
B
LED
o o
G E R
K - K
Fo l.
N° 74-
1769
Canary in co. ivith S. 7 n
King; and J. Oker, 5 r
■ 1769
Q Dec.
Dec.
Canary, Dr
24 To Canary in co. retained at 2 5/.
To Oil in company, in barter
To S. King his acct in co. for
his -f gained,
To J. Oker his acct in comp.
for his y gained,
To Profit and Lofs, for my \
gained,
Mr “Jones and Company, Dr
To Ship Phoenix in co. to pay at 3 M°
Pipes
Pipe.
Balance,
Dr
To Cajh, remaining in my hands,
T’o Indian Chints, remaining 5 pieces,
at 24/. 10/.
To Ship Britannia, for y remaining,
To Tho Freeman, for F. Beek’sfla.x.,
To Duroys, rem. 30 pieces, at 26s.
To John Vernon, due by him,
ToFuJiians, rem. 120pieces, 3137/. 6d.
To Jacob Spencer, lent him.
To Bills receivable, as per accompt,
To Lockrams, rem. 40 pieces, at 25 r.
To Cochineal, remaining 1 C.
To Cinnamon, rem. 64 lb. at 7/. 8
To Mujlin, rem. 8 bales, at 12/. 16/.
To Cotton, rem. 42 C. 2 0^at 3/. ijr.
To Cloves, remaining 12 lb. at 9/. id.
and 72 lb. at 9r.
To John JeJfop, his ac. curt, due by him,
To John Dyer, due by him,
To Voy. to Lijbon in co. for my \ rem.
To Canary, remaining 2 pipes, at 25 /.
To Mr Jones and Company, outftanding,
10246
122
348
54
39
200
225
1000
383
5000
108
24
160 15
8000
33
5°
700
E E
d.
08
ioo3
0:00
opo
0000
0708-
6 00
o 08
08 00
0706
I N
L E
G.
D G
617
( 11 ) .
1769
Dec
Cajh, at 29/. J2s. for
By Sundries, at 25 /. for
By Balance, remaining at 2j/.
Contra,
By Balance, outftanding.
Contra,
Cr
Pipes.
6
6
Contra,
Cr
Pipes
Cr
Contra,
Cr
By Jacob Rujfel, due to him.
By H. Van Beek, his acct on time.
By H. Van Beek, his aect-current.
By James Ward, due to him,
By George Kent his acct -proper.
By Simon King his acet-proper.
By John Oker his ucct proper.
By Stock, the neat of my eftato, -
49
54
216
36
13407
134
Vol. I. Numb. 26.
3
t 7 R
,6iB
BOOK-KEEPING
Of the SUBSIDIARY BOOKS ufed by Merchants.
Thovgh all merchant-accompts may be kept by the Wzfte-
hwk, Journal, and Ledger, alone; yet men of great bufinefs
find it convenient, either for abridging thefe, or for other
ends, to ufe fome others, generally called fubfidiary Of fub-
fervient ftooks ; the moll eommon of which are thefe nine fol¬
lowing, piz.
i. The CaJl)-book.
This book is kept in a folio form, like the Ledger, and
ferves to abridge the CaPa-accompt there. On the left-hand
page, or Dr fide, Cajb is charged Dr for all the fums received;
and on the right-hand page, Cafh is made Or for all the lums
paid. Once a week, or, which is more ordinary, once a
month, this book is polled to the Ledger ; or, if you pleafe,
fitft to the Journal, by two entries, viz. Cad) Dr to Sundries,
for all the receipts, and Sundries Drs to Cafh, for all the pay¬
ments. By this means the Calh-accompt in the Ledger will
he fo far contrafted as to confill of 12 lines, viz. one for each
month in the year. A fpecimen of this book follows.
/. s.\d.
1769.
W
Caff), j Dr.
To George Hill, received in full for lead,
5T0 John Sj:ot, in pan for fugar,
2 To Robert Hunter, for vf. B’s bill on him,
18 To Port ‘wine, received for 1 pipe,
31 To James Neil and comp, in full for tobacco,
July
1769.-
Contrn, Cr.
By George Duncan, paid in full for canary.
By R. Richmond and Co. in part for dowlas.
By Samuel Smith, paid him R. Blair's bill,
By Holland, for 2 pieces, at 18/.
By Charges of merchandize.
By Houfe-expences, ...
J98I02
the money-columns of this book are added up, and the fun) I
carried to the credit-fide of the Calh-book.
N. B. At the fame time you poll the monthly fums of this *
book to the Calh book, you mult debit the feveral accompts|
of goods and voyages for their particular lhares of charges;
which is done by palling the following entry in the Journal,
namely, Sundries (viz. the feveral accompts of goods and
voyages for their refpe&ive lhares) Drs to Charges of mer¬
chandize. The remaining part of thefe charges will be luchjj
as relate to trade in general, being chargeable to no particular ]
accompt, and will of courfe fall into the general accompt of)
Profit and Lofis, when the accompt of Charges of merchan- \
dizem the Ledger is clofed, at balancing the books. The
form of this book follows,
90 00
109 10
3000
26 i(
r oo|o<
356I00 00
July
-1769.-
Charges of Merchandize, Dr.
j To Cafh, paid for freight of 10 tuns of iron,
j To ditto, paid cullom of ditto,
8 To ditto, paid other petty charges on ditto,
1 To ditto, paid porterage ofgoods bought of^.i?,
-To ditto, paid the llationers for paper,
8 To ditto, paid pollage of letters,
27 To ditto, paid rent of 2 cellars.
To ditto, paid charges on 12 bales of Ikins,
The Book of Houfe-expences.
d.
8po|
>2|02
This book is alfo paged, and defigned likewife to cafe the
Calh-b&ok. It contains all dilburfepients for family-provi-
fions, fervants wages, houfe-rent, apparel, utenfils, isc. The
money-columns of this book are alfo added up ai the end of
each month, and the fum transferred to the credit fide of the
Calh-book.
N. B. If goods are brought from the fhop for the ufe of the
family, this more properly belongs to the Wafte book, and is
not to be inferted here. A fpecimen of this book follows. <
769-
Note, Merchants that have calh-keepers mull beware to
‘write any thing in the Calh-book themfelves ; for if they do,
'the calh-keeper is no more accountable for what is Hated in the
book; and therefore the mailer, in cafe of money delivered
to him, in the caih-keeper’s abfence, mull keep it till he come
home ; and then deliver it to, him, and fee him enter itiin the
book himfelf.
2. fhe Book of Charges of Merchandize..
This book is only paged, and defign'ed to abbreviate the
C)lli-book. It contains particular charges on goods and
voyages; fuch as, carriage, cullom, freight, cranage, wharf¬
age, tec.: As alfo other expences that affedt trade in gene¬
ral fuch as, warehoufe-rent, Ihop-rent, accomptant’s wages,
ppftage of letters, and the like.. At the end of each month
July
Houje-expences, Dr.
ToCaJh, paid for new cloatbs, hat, and Ihoes,
10T0 ditto, paid for fixdrinking-glaires,
17-T0 ditto, paid for earthen-ware,
25 To ditto, paid for 12 dozen bottles,
31 To ditto, paid pocket-expences,
—To dim, paid the houfekeeper, -
90900
15 0609
3 6 oc oc*
4. The Invoice-book.
This book, which is ufed chiefly byfadtors, is paged, aind
contains doubles or copies 01 the invoices of goods lent to fea,
or of goods received from abroad. The form of an invoice is
as follows.
London,
B O O K - K J
London, ift July 1769.
Invoice of 8 lores indigo, and 4 boxes fpiceries, jhipped p:r
Bonadventure, Robert Wzp majier, /or Leith, by order,'
and for accompt of A. B. merchant there.
4.B. INDIGO 8 boxes.
Grofs. Tare.
Mt
13i
IS
13
24
E P I N G.
619
564! mi
ml
452I lb. neat, at 4/. 3 d.
Boxes, . . .
SPICERIES 4 boxes,
lb.
0 1 12 cinnamon, at 7/. 9<f. .
2   4 nutmegs, at 8a. 8d.
3  57 pymento, at id.
4   1 mace, - -
Boxes,
Bill of lading, cocket, and other charges.
/. d.
4 2i;
9 4 j
r
olio
Commiffion at 2I per cent. ...
Infurance on the above tool. 1!per cent, and 7
policy, 4 a. 6 d. is - - - 3
Commiilion on ditto at * per cent.
11 ijo6 oj!
Errors excepted, per M. S.
N. B. When a merchant in Britain drips off imported
gpods, fuch as tobacco, to Holland, or other places, for fale„
the invoice fent to the fadtor ufually contains only the marks,
numbers, and quantity dripped, but nothing of the prime colt
or charges ; which in this cafe could not be eafily afcertained;
and the want thereof is pretty well fupplied by inftrudting.the
fador not to fell under fuch a price. But invoices of all
kinds of manufactures and goods configned from Britain to
North America or the IVft Indies, generally exhibit prime
coft and all charges; which is nepeffary, not only as it ferves
for a fort of diredory to the fador, but ftill more fo, in re¬
gard Briiifb goods are frequently fold in thofe places at fo
much advance on the invoice prices.
5. The Sales-book.
This book too is chiefly ufed by fadors; and' into it is
poded, from the Wade-book, the particular fades of every
configned cargo; by which means the feveral articles of a fale,
that lie fcattered in the Wade-book, are brought together,
and reprefented under one view, and that in a manner more
full and minute than they are colleded in the Ledger accompt.
This book exhibits the fales of every confignment feparately
and by themfelves; to which are fubjoined the refpedive
charges, fuch as freight, cudom, the fador’s coramiflion, as
alfo abatements allowed to buyers, &<?. whofe fum fubtraded
from the grofs amount of fales, gives the neat proceeds.
From this book, when a cargo is fold off, an accompt of fales
is drawn out, in order to be tranfmitted to the employer. If
the configriment confid but of one kind of goods, the Sales-
book may be ruled and written up as in the following example,
Rotterdam. \ft June 1767.
Sales of 6 packs ferges, containing 4380 yards, received per
the Friendlhip, Samuel Sharp viafler, for account of :\. B.
merchant in Glafgow, North Britain.
1769
June
Sold Frederick Gordon, at,i month,
Packs. Pieces. Yards.
N° 1 19 743
4  20 643
t 1386 at 7 divers
Sold for ready money,
N° 2 17 717
3 18 730
5  14 830
6  16 717
 2994 at 6 divers
Total 4380
- G uil.
CHARGES.
G. St. D
Freight and average, - 25 10 00
Cudom and waiters dues, - 31 00 cx
Scout-freight, and other fmall 7
charges, - - ^ 3 °o oe
Meafuring, at 4 divers
100 yards, - - £ o 14 oc
Charges in felling, and pack-7
houfe-rent, - - ^ 4 °4 oc
Commiflion, at 2 per cent. 27 13 o<
898 04
138;
D.
Neat proceeds, (errors and bad debts S
excepted,) carried to die credit of his C 1283
Accompt-cur ten t,
If the configned cargo confids of two or more kinds of
goods, the Sales book mud be ruled with columns for the dif¬
ferent forts of goods ; and the heads of thefe columns mud be
titled with the names and quantities of the goods from the in¬
voice. ,
6. The Bill-book.
The dtfign of this BiJI-bosjk, or Month-book, is to furniih
a merchant with a ready way of knowing the time when bills
or other debts become payable to or by him. It qonfids of 12
folios, one for each montla in the year. The left-hand page
contains the debts that fad due to die merchant in-the month on
the top, and the right-hand page contains the debts payable by
him to others in the fame month ; as in the annexed Ipecimen.
[ /. r. d.
1769. ■
Day;
January, to receive.
Of F.douard Finch, 600 crowns, at 541/. bill;
toOf Robert Banks, for lihtfeed,
23 Of George Hally, for Norwich duffs,
%iQf John Short, 2539 guilders, 19 divers, 7'
at 34/. 5 d. Flemifh per L. Sterling, >
13 J oo(oo
86 1000
3500*00
2 46[oo 00-
Days
6*0
BOO
Days
769.-
K - K
/. j. J.
January, to pay.
qTo Simon Smith, 3000 crowns, at 56 d.\
bill of G. F. - - - 5
12 .To James Jeffery, for fundry goods,
25IT0 James Martin and company,
gojTo James Halley, for oil,
70
68x3
0000
76;q9!io
N. B. Upon the payment of any fum, merchants either
cancel the line, or, which is better, they write the word Re¬
ceived or Paid upon the margin, or ufe fome mark of their
own, to fignify that the fum to which it is affixed is paid.
7. The Receipt-book.
In this book a merchant takes receipts of the payments
he makes. The receipt fhould contain the date; the fum re¬
ceived, expreffed in words at large, and alfo in figures in the
money-columns ; the reafon why ; and whether in full or in
part; and mud be figned by the perfon receiving. But there
is no occafion to mention the merchant’s name ; for the book
being his own, fufficiently implies that. This book is paged,
and the form of it is as follows.
d.
Received, July 1. 1769, in part for fugar,7
the fum of one hundred thirty fix pounds, y
per John Stewart.
Received, this 4th of July. 1769, in full for^
fndigo, the fum of forty eight pounds tens-
(hillings, - * - - j
per Tho. Green.
Received, July 6. 1769, in part for lead,)
twenty pounds, for my mailer David Douglas, 5
per Sam. Sprat.
Received, July 10. 1769, in full for coO
peras, thirty fix pounds twelve Ihillings, forC
felf and company, ~ ~ J
Per David Duff.
Received, July 11. 1769, forty-five pounds \
twelve Ihillings and nine pence, in full for to ff
bacco fold the 10th of January lall, for felf^
and partner, ... j
Per Simon Trufty.
Received, July 12. 1769, the fum of fifty
pounds, by order, and for the account ofj
George Grant, - - -
Per Nath. Smith.
8. The Copy-Book of Letters.
It is very imprudent in any perfon to fend away a letter of
bufinefs, without keeping a double of it to himfelf; and there-
E E P I N G.
fore,, to prevent the bad confequences of fuch a carelefs prac¬
tice, merchants are provided with a large book, in folio, into
which is copied verbatim every letter of bufinefs before it be
fent off. So that this book, together with the letters recei- !
ved (which mull alfo be carefully kept in files or boxes,)
makes a complete hiltory of all the dealings that pafs betwixt
a merchant and his correfpondents; which may be very ufeful
and neceffary on many occafions.
9. The Pocket-book.
This is a fmall book, of a portable fize, which a merchant
carries in his pocket when bufinefs calls him abroad to a ta- ;
vern, a fair, the country, or other places. In this he fets
down the bargains he makes, the expences he is at, the debts
he pays, or fums he receives, with every other part of bull- .
nefs he tranfadts while abroad; as alfo any occurrence or piece
of news he thinks worth while to record. And when he cofnes
home to his compting-houfe or (hop, he 'transfers the things
contained in this book, each to their proper places in the
Wafte-book, or Books Subfidiary.
Factors of great bufinefs fometimes keep another fmall
book, called the Memorandum book. Into this book is co¬
pied, from letters as they come to hand, (hort notes of the
feveral commilfions for buying goods contained in them ; and
as the commiflions are effedted, the notes are croffed, or have
fome mark affixed to them. This is more convenient in doing
bufinefs, than to be continually running to the letters them-
felves. Suppofe a merchant of Liffion, by his letter, give a
commiffion for buying goods, a note of it in the Memoran-
dum book will Hand thus.
Lijbon, 15th June 1769. i
Out of Carlos Popham's letter an order for
4000 yards of ferges, at 8 d. or 8J-r/. per yard,
20 dozen (lockings, not above 36/. per dozen, <bc.
All which to be packed and (hipped for Liffion, con-
figned to himfelf, and marked C. P.
In like manner fadlors may, and thofe much employed ge¬
nerally do, take a note, from the letters of advice, of all the
goods configned to them, either in a feparate place of this
book, or in another book of the fame nature. By this means
a fadtor has daily under his eye, both the time when fuch a
(hip may be expedted, and the goods (he brings: And fo is in
a readier way of minding to look out for a merchant for them
before hand, than if he had only the letter as his remembran¬
cer. An example follows.
Naples, 18th June 1769.
In the Profperity, Robert Wilfon mailer, filks for ac¬
count of Anthony Car eon, marked A. C. N° 122 to 140;
The above are the fubfidiary books mod in ufe: But a
merchant is not tied down or reftridled to them; he may keep
fome. and negledt others, or invent more, as the nature of his
bufinefs requires, and he finds convenient.
Addendum
BOO
621 ) BOO
Addendum to the article Book.
All foreign bound books pay duty on importation
14s. for every 112 lb. As to unbound books, they
are commonly entered by the hundred weight, and
pay, if French, 13 s. 6T44 <!• but if from any o-
ther country, only ys. It is alfo to be ob-
ferved, that all popifli books are prohibited to be im¬
ported; as are all Englilh books printed abroad, un-
lefs with the confent of the proprietor of the copy.
Common-place-'BoovL. See CoMMon-place-boek.
7Vx/-Book. See Text.
Book binding. The art of gathering and fewing together
the fheetsr of a book, and covering it with a back, <bc.
It is performed thus : The leaves are firft folded with
a folding-ftick, and laid over each other in the order
of the fignature; then beaten on a ftone with a ham¬
mer, to make them fmooth and open well, and after¬
wards preffed. They are fewed upon bands, which
are pieces of cord or packthread; fix bands to a folio
book, five to a quarto, odtavo, <&c. which is done by
drawing a thread through the middle of each Iheet,
and giving it a turn round each band, beginning with
the firft, and proceeding to the lad. After this the
books are glued, and the bands opened and fcraped,
for the better fixing the palteboards; the back is
turned with a hammer, and the book fixed in a prefs
between two boards, in order to make a groove for
fixing the pafteboards; thefe being applied, holes are
made for fixing them to the book, which is prefled a
third time. Then the book is at lafi: put to the cut¬
ting prefs, betwixt two boards, the one lying even
with the prefs, for the knife to run upon, the other
above it, for the knife to run again!!: After which
the pafle-boards are fquared. ,
The next operation is the fprinkling the leaves of
the book, which is done by dipping a brufh into ver¬
milion and fap-green, holding the brufli in one hand,
and fpreading the hair with the other; by which mo¬
tion the edges of the leaves are fprinkled in a regular
manner, without any fpots being bigger than the o-
thers.
Then remains the covers, which are either of calf-
!kin, or of flieep-fkin; thefe being moiftened in wa¬
ter, are cut out to the fize of the book, then fmeared
over with pafle made of wheat flour, and afterwards
ftretched over the pafteboard on the outfide, and
doubled over the edges whhinfide ; after having fir!!
taken off the four angles, and indented and platted the
cover at the head-band: which done, the book is co¬
vered, and bound firmly between two bands, and then
fet to dry. Afterwards it is waflied over with a little
pafte and water, and then fprinkled fine with a brufh,
unlefs it fhould be marbled; when the fpots are to be
made larger, by mixing the ink with vitriol. After
this the book is glazed twice with the white of an
egg beaten, and at lafi poltftied with a poli!hing-iron
pafled hot over the glazed cover.
BOOKSELLER, one who trades in books, whether he
prints them himfelf, or gives them to be printed by
others.
Von. I. No. 26.
Bookfellets are in many places ranked among the
members of univerfities, and entitled to the privilege
of fludents, as at Tubingen, Salifburg, and Paris,
where they have always been diflinguilhed from the
vulgar and mechanical traders, and exempted from di¬
vers taxes and impofitions laid upon other companies.
The traffic of books was anciently very inconfider-
able, in fo much, that the book-merchants of England*
France, and Spain, and other countries, were diflin-
guifhed by the appellation of Jiationen, as having no
fliops, but only flails and Hands in the flreets. Du¬
ring this Hate, the civil magiflrates took little notice
of the bookfellers, leaving the government of them to
the univerfities, to whom they were fuppofed more im¬
mediate retainers ; who accordingly gave them laws
and regulations, fixed prices on their books, examined
their corredtnefs, and punifhed them at difcretion.
But when, by the invention of printing, books and
bookfellers began to multiply, it became a matter of
more confequence, and the fovereigns took the direc¬
tion of them into their own hands ; giving them new
flatutes, appointing officers to fix prices, and granting
licences, privileges, <bc.
BOOKING, among merchants, the making an entry of
any thing in a Journal. See Book-keeping.
BOOM, in the fea-language, a long piece of timber with
which the clew of the fludding-fail is fpread out; and
fometimes the boom is ufed to fpread or boom out the
clew of the mainmafl.
Boom-fpars, imported from the Britifh plantations,
are free; if from Ireland, Alia, or Africa, they pay
6s. jd. the hundred ; and if from elfewhere, 9s. 64d.
Boom denotes alfo a cable ftretched athwart the mouth
of a river or harbour; with yards, topmafls, battling
or fpars of wood lafhed to it, to prevent an enemy’s
coming in.
BOOMING, among failors, denotes the application of
a boom to the fails.
A fhip is faid to come booming forwards, when flie
comes with all the fail fhe can make.
BOOPHTHALMUS, a kind of agat with large circles
in it, bearing fome refemblance to an ox’s eye, from
whence it has got this name.
BOOPS, in zoology, the trivial name of a fpecies of
balsena. See Bal^na.
BOOT, a well known cover for the leg, made of lea¬
ther.
BooT-/r<?i?, or BooT-/^y?, an inflrument ufed by fhoe-
makers to widen the leg of a boot. It is a wooden
cylinder flit into two parts, between which, when it is
put into the boot, they drive by main force a wedge
or quoin.
BOOTES, a conflellation of the northern hemrfphere,
confifling of 23 liars, according to Ptolemy’s cata¬
logue, of 18 in Tycho’s, of 34 in Bayer’s, of 52 in
Helvclius’s, and of 54 in Mr Flamftead’s catalogue.
See Astronomy, p. 486.
BOOTY, whatever is taken from an enemy in time of
war.
BOPPART, a town of the eledlorate of Triers, fituated
on the wefl fhore of the Rhine, about eight miles fouth
of Coblentz : E. long. 10', N. lat. 50°
t 7 S BOQUE-
3
B O R
BOQUEROON, an ifland in the E. Indian ocean, ly¬
ing north-ealt of Borneo, in N. lat. 30.
BOQUINIANS, in church hiftory, a fcft of heretics,
fo called from Boquinus their founder, who taught
that Chrifl: did not die for all mankind, but only for
the faithful, and confequently was only a particular
Saviour.
BORA, in natural hiftory, a name ufed by fome for the
Bufonites. See Bufonites.
BORAGO, in botany, a fynonime of the anchufa. See
Anchusa.
BOR iK, a fabulous animal, faid to be of a middle na¬
ture between an afs and a mule, and to have carried
Mahomet in his aerial journeys from Jerufalem into
heaven.
BORASSUS, in botany, a genus belonging to the order
of palmte flabellifoiiae. The bo radii s, of which there
is but one fpecies, has palmated and plaited leaves,
and is a native of India.
BORAX, the name of a faline fubftance brought from
the E. Indies in large mafles, compofed partly of large
cryftak, but chiefly of fm-tller ones, partly white and
partly green, joined together, as it were, by a greafy
yellow fubftance, intermingled with fand, fmall /tones,
and other impurities. The purer cryflals, expofed to
the fire, melt into a kind of glafs, which is neverthe-
lefs foluble in water.
This fait, dinolved and eryflalized, forms fmall
tranfparent maffes. The origin of this fait is not
known ; but experiments have clearly fhewn, that it
confifts of a fixt alkaline fait, the fame with the balls
of fea-falt, in fome degree neutralifed by another fa-
line fubftance, which is fuppofed to exift no where
but in borax itfelf.
The medical virtues of borax are little known : In
doles of half a dram to two fcruples, it is fuppofed to
be diuretic, emmenagogue, and a promoter of deli¬
very.
BORBONIA, in botany, a genus of the diadelphia- de-
candria clafs. The calix is pointed and prickly; and
the flygma is emarginated. There are fix fpecies of
borbonia, which is a kind of broom, all natives of A-
merica
BORBORITES, in church-hiftory, a fecit of gnoftics,
in the fecond century, who, befides embracing the er¬
rors of thefe heretics, denied the laft judgment.
Their name comes from the Greek, [Borborof],
fitb, on account of a cuftom they had of daubing their
faces and bodies with dirt and filth.
BORCH, a. town of lower Saxony,, in Germany, about
fourteen miles north-eaft of Magdeburg: E. long. 120
14', N. lat 52° 2s'.
BORCHEEON, or Loots, a town of the bifhopric of
Liege in Germany, about fifteen miles north-weft of
the city of Liege : E. long. 50 30', N. lat. 50° 50'.
BGRDAT, in commerce, a fmall narrow; ftufF, which
is manufadtured in fome parts of Egypt, particularly at
Cairo, at Alexandria, and Damieta.
BORDER, in gardening, is made to inclofe parterres,
that they may not be injured by walking in them.
Borders are made either circular,^ftrait, or in. cants ;
( 622 ) BO &
and are turned into knots, fcrolls, volutes, and other
compartiments. They are rendered very'ornamental
by the flowers, fhrubs, yews. ^c. that are raifed in
them. They are always laid with a (harp riling in
the middle; becaufe, if they are flat, theyare'no-
ways agreeable to the eye : And as for their breadth,
the largeft are allowed five or fix feet, and the Idler
commonly four. There are four forts, i.Thofe con¬
tinued about parterres, without any interruption. 2.
Thofe cut into compartiments and convenient diftan-
ces by fmall paftages; thefe two are raifed in the mid¬
dle, and adorned with flowers and Ihrubs. 3. Even
and flat ones, without flowers. And, 4. Quite plain
borders, only fanded, as in parterres of orangery.
BORD-/r«. See Free.
Bor.d-halfpenny, a fmall toll, by cuftom paid to the
lord of the town for fetting up boards, tables, booths,
itc. in fairs and markets.
BoK-a-lands, the demefnes which lords keep in their
hands for the maintenance of their board or table.
Bord-/?<jV, afervice required of tenants to carry timber
out of the woods of the lord to his houfe. It is alfo
ufed to fignify the quantity of provifion' which the
bordarii or bordmen paid for their bord lands.
BorTt-fervice, the tenure of bord-lands, by which fome
lands in certain places are held of the b fhop of Lon¬
don, and the tenants now pay fixpence per acre, in
lieu of finding provifion anciently for their lord’s table.
BORDURE, in heraldry, a cutting off from within the
efeurcheon all round It about -f of the field, ferving as
a difference in a coat of arms, to diftinguilh families
of the fame name, or perfons bearing the fame coat.
See Plate LI. fig. 16.
If the line conftituting the bordure be ftrait, and
the bordure be plain, then in blazoning you muft on¬
ly name the colour of the bordure.
Bordures are fometiraes ingrailed, gobonated, in-
vhfted, fac- See Ingraileu,
If the border be charged with any part of plants or
flowers, the term is verdoy of trefoils, or whatever
flower it be. If it confifts of ermins, vairy, or any
of the furs, they fay purflew of ermins, <bc. If the
bordure be charged with martlets, the word is char¬
ged with an enalyron of martlets, &c.
Bordures are fymbois of protection, favour and re¬
ward ; and as fuch kings beftow them on thofe they
have a value for.
BORE, among engineers, denotes the diameter of the
barrel of a gun or cannon, or rather its whole cavity.
Square Bore , among mechanics, a fquare piece of well-
tempered fteel, fitted into a handle, ferving to- widen
holes, and make them perfectly round.
BOREAL, in a general fenfe, fomething relating to the
north. Thus,
BoREALyig«j-, in aftronomy, are die firft fix figns of
the zodiac, or thofe northwards of the equinoctial.
Aurora Borealis. See Pneumatics.
BOREAS, a Greek name, now in common ufe for the
north wind.
Pezron obferves, that anciently boreas fignified the
north.-eaft wind, blowing at the time of the fummer
folftice.
BOR
feffHce. Boreas is reprefented in painting like an old
man with a horrible look, his hair and beard cover¬
ed with fnow or hoar froft, with the feet and tail of
a ferpent. *
BORE A SMI, in Grecian antiquity, a feftival kept by
the Athenians in honour of Boreas.
BOREEL, a cape on the north part of New Zeland,
in the South Sea, lying weft by fouth from the moft
foutherly part of South America.
BORGO, a town of Finland, in the province of Ny-
land, upon the northern coafl of the gulph of Finland.
Borgo di Sesia, a town of Italy, in thp dutchy of
Milan, fituated upon the Sefia.
Borgo de St Sepulchro, a town of Tufcany, about
fifty miles eafl of Florence, near the head of the Ti¬
ber: E; long. 130, and N. lat 430 30'.
Borgo de Val de Faro, a town of Italy, in the
dutchy of Parma, about twenty miles fouth-weft of
that city; E. long. io° 36', and N. lat. 440 35'.
Borgo-Forte, a town of the Mantuan, in Italy, fi¬
tuated at the confluence of the rivers Po and Menzo,
about ei^ht miles fouth of Mantua; E.long. ix® N.lat.
44° 5°'■
Borgo St Domingo, a city of Italy, in the dutchy
of Parma, about ten miles north-weft of that city;
E. long. io° 3I',' N. lat. 44® 50'.
BORIA, a city of Arragon, in Spain, about thirty-five
miles north-weft .of Saragofia ; W. long, 20, and N.
lat. 41 0 40'.
SPRING, in a general fenfe, the art of perforating, or
making a hole through any folid body.
Borjng of ^water-pipes. The method of boring wa¬
ter-pipes is as follows. The poles of alder, which is
a very ufeful wood in making pumps, water- pipes, 6w..
being laid on horfes or treffels of a foot height, to
reft the auger upon while they are boring, they fet up
a lath to turn the leaft end of the poles, to fit them
to the cavities of the great end of the others. They
turn the fmall ends of the poles about five or fix inches
in length, to the fize they intend to bore the bigger
ends about the fame depth, viz. five or fix inches.
This is defigned to make a joint to fhut each pair of
poles together, the concave part being the female part,
and the other part the male of the joint. In turning
the male part, they turn a channel in it, or a fmall
groove at a certain diftance from the end; and in the
female part, they bore a fmall hole to fit over this
channel. This being done, they bore the poles
through; and to prevent them from boring out at the
fide,- they flick great nails at each end to be a guide
in boring. It is ufual, however, to bore them at both
ends ; fo that if a pole be crooked.one way, they can.
bore it through, and not fpoil it.
Boring; in farriery, an operation in ufe for the cure of
wrenched fhoulders in horfes* It is this; having cut
a hole in the flcin, over the^part affefted, they blow it
with up a.tobacco-pipe, as a butcher does a fhoulder
of veal; after which they thruft a cold flat iron, like
the point of a fword-blade, eight or ten inches up be¬
tween the fhoulder-blade and the ribs .: This they call
boring.
BOR
Boring, in mineralogy, a method of piercing the earth
with fcooping irons, which being r:\wr back at pro¬
per times, bring up with them lac w of the difivient
ftrata through which they have patted bs the exami¬
nation of which the fkilful minerahft will be able to
guefs whereabouts a vein of ore mayl ie, or whether it
will be worth while to open a mine there or no.
BORIQUE, one of the Caribbee iflands, lyjng fouth-
eaft of Porto Rico, in 64° 30' W. long, and 18° N.
lat.
BORISSOW, a town of Poland, in the dutchy of Li¬
thuania, fituated upon the river Berozina.
BORISTHENES, in geography. See Nieper.
BORITH. See Kali.
BORMIO. a territory of the Grifons, in Italy, having
the dominions of Venice on the fouth.
BORNE, a market-town in Lincolnlhire, about 30 miles
fouth of the city of Lincoln ; in 20' W. long, and 52°
40' N. lat.
BORNEO, a large ifland. in the Indian ocean, fituated
between 107® and 117° E. long, and between 70 go7
N. hat. and 40 S. lat.
Its figure is almoft round, and computed to be 2500
miles in circumference, and confequently containing
a greater number of fquare acres than any ifland in the
known world.
Borneo is alfo the name of the principal town of the
above ifland, fituated on a bay at the north-weft part,
in iii° 30/E. long, and 40 30' N. lat.
BORNHOLM, an ifland in the Baltic Sea, fituated on
the coaftof Schonen, in Sweden, about 43 miles north-
eaft of the iftand.ofE.ugen, in 15? E.-long. and 55°
1 f N. lat.
BORNEO, or Bournou, the name of a town and
country of Nigritia, in Africa. This country abounds
in cattle, millet, and cotton. It lies between 15° and.
24° E. long, and between io° and 20° N\ lat.
Borneo is alfo the name of a lake, in the river Niger,
where it traverfes the above-mentioned country.
BOROUGH, in Scots law, is a body corporate made up
of the inhabitants of a certain traflof ground eredled
by the fovereign, and endowed with a limited jiirif-
diftion, and certain privileges. They are divided into
boroughs royal, of regality, and of barony. See
Law, tit. Inferior Judges and Courts of Scotland.
Borough-English, a cuftomary defeent of lands or
tenements, in certain places, by which they defeend
to the youngeft inftead of the eldeft fon; or, if the
owner have no iflue, to the-younger inftead of the el¬
der brother* This cuftom goes with the land, al¬
though there be a devife or feoffment at the common
law to the contrary. The reafon of this cuftom, fays
Littleton, is, becaufe.the youngeft is prefumed in law
to be leaft able to provide for himfelf.
Borough-head, or Headborou&h, called alfo bo¬
rough-holder, or burfholder, the chief man of the^-
cenna, or hundred, chofen to fpeak and act ,in behalf
of the reft.
Headborough alfo fignifies a kind of head conftable,
where there are feveral chofen as his afliftants, to
ferve warrants, ev. See Constable.
( ^3 )
Borougis--
BOS ( 624 ) BOS
Borough-bridge, a town in the North Riding of
Yorkftiire, about 15 miles norh-weft of York; in i°
15'. W. long, and 54° io/ N. lat.
BOROZAIL, or the zail of the Ethiopians, a difeafe
epidemic in the countries about the river Senega. It
principally affedts the pudenda, but is different from
the lues venerea. It owes its rife to excelHve venery:
In the men this diftemper is called afah> and in the
women afabatus.
BORRAGE. See Anchusa.
BORRELLISTS, in church-hiflory, a Chriflian fe<fl in
Holland. They rejeft the ufe of churches, of the fa-
craments, public prayer, and all other external a<Ss
of worlhip. Theyaffert, that all the Chriftian churches
of the world have degenerated from the pure apofto-
lical doftrines, becaufe they have fuffered the word of
God, which is infallible, to be expounded, or rather
corrupted, by dodors, who are not infallible. They
lead a very auftere life, and employ a great part of
their goods in alms.
BORSALO, a kingdom of Africa, in Nigritia: It ex¬
tends along the north fide of the river Gambia, as far
as Tantaconde.
BOS, in zoology, a genus of quadrupeds belonging to
the order of pecora. The chara&ers of this genus are
taken from the horns and teeth. The horns are hol¬
low within, and turned forward, in the form of cref-
cents: There are eight fore-teeth in the under jaw,
and none in the upper, their place being fupplied by a
hard membrane; and there are no dog-teeth in either
jaw. Linnaeus enumerates fix fpecies, viz. 1. The
taurus, including the bull and cow, has cylindrical
horns, bent outwards, and loofe dewlaps. The bull
or male is naturally a fierce and terrible animal. When
the cows are in feafon, he is perfeflly ungovernable,
and often altogether furious. When chaffed, he has
an air of fullen majeffy, and oft tears up the ground
with his feet and horns. The principal ufe of the bull
is to propagate the fpecies; although he might be
trained to labour, his obedience cannot be depended
on. A bull, like aftallion, fhould be the moft hand-
fome of his fpecies. He fhould be large, well made,
and in good heart; he fhould have a black eye, a fierce
afpeft, but an open front; a fhort head; thick, fhort,
and blackifh horns., and long fhaggy ears; a fhort and
ftraight nofe, large and full breaft and fhoulders,
thick and flefhy neck, firm reins, a ftreight back,
thick ffefhy legs, and a long tail well covered with
hair. Caftration remarkably foftens the nature of this
animal; it deftroys all his fire and impetuofity, and
renders him mild and tractable, without diminifhing
his ftrength; on the contrary, after this operation,
his weight is increafed, and he becomes fitter for the
purpofes of plowing,
The beft time for caftrating bulls is at the age
of puberty, or when they are eighteen months or
two years old ; when performed fooner, they often
die. However, it is not uncommon to caftrate calves
a few days after birth. But fuch as furvive an -ope¬
ration fo dangerous to their tender age, generally grow
larger and fatter, and harm more courage and aftiyity
than thofe who are caftrated at die age of puberty. When
the operation is delayed till the age of fix, feven, or
eight years, they lofe but few of the qualities of bulls,
are much more furious and untraiffable than other oxes,
and when the cows are in feafon, they go in queft of
them with their ufual ardor. See Plate LII. fig. 2.
The females of all thofe fpecies of animals which we
keep in flocks, and whofe increafe is the principal objed,
are much more ufeful than the males. The cow pro¬
duces milk, butter, cheefe, &c. which are principal ar¬
ticles in our food, and befides anfwer many ufeful pur¬
pofes in various arts.
Cows are generally in feafon, and receive the bull,
from the beginning of May to the middle of July. Their
time of geftation is nine months, which naturally brings
the veal or calves to our markets from the beginning of
January to the end of April. However, luxury has
fallen upon methods of interrupting this natural courfe,
and veal may be had almoft every month in the year.
Cows, when improperly managed, are very fubjed to
abortion. In the time of geftation, therefore, they
ought to be obferved with more than ordinary care, left
they fhould leap ditches, <bc. Neither fhould they be
fuffered to draw in the plough or other carriage, which
is a pradice in fome countries. They fhould be put into
the beft pafture, and fhould not be milked for fix weeks
or two months before they bring forth their young. The
calve fhould be allowed to fuck and follow its mother
during the firft fix or eight days. After this it begins to
eat pretty well, and two or three fucks in a day will be
fufficient. But if the objed be to have it quickly fat¬
tened for the market, a few raw eggs every day, with
boiled milk, and a little bread, will make it excellent
veal in four or five weeks. This management of calves
applies only to fuch as are defigned for the butcher.
When they are intended to be nourifhed and brought up,
they ought to have at leaft two months fuck; becaufe
the longer they fuck, they grow the ftronger and larger.
Thofe that are brought forth in April, May, or June,
are the moft proper for this purpofe; when calved later
in the feafon, they do not acquire fufficient ftrength to
fupport them during the winter.
The cow comes to the age of puberty in 18 months,
but the bull requires two years: But although they
are capable of propagating at thefe ages, it is better
to reftrain them till they be full three years. From
three to nine years thofe animals are in full vigour; but
when older, they are fit for nothing but to be fed for the
butcher. A milk cow ought to be chofen young, fleffiy,
and with a briflt eye.
The heavieft and moft bulky animals neither fleep fo
profoundly, nor fo long as the fmaller ones. The fleep
-of the ox is ftiort and flight; he wakes at the leaft noife.
He lies generally on the left fide, and the kidney of that
fide is always larger than the other. There is great va¬
riety in the colour of oxen. A reddiffi or black colour
is moft efteemed. The hair ffiould be gloffy, thick, and
foft; for, when otherwife, the animal is either not in
health, or has a weakly conftitution. The beft time for
inuring
U L
BOS ( d
inuring them to labour is at the age of two and a half or
three years.
The ox eats very quick, and foon fills his firft fto-
mach ; after which he lies down to ruminate, or chew
the cud. The firft and fecond ftomachs are continuations
of the fame bag, and very capacious. After the grafs
has been chewed over again, it is reduced to a kind of
mafii, not unlike boiled fpinage, and under this form it
is fent down to the third ftomach, where it remains and
digefts for fome time ; but the digeftion is not fully com-
pleated till it comes to the fourth ftomach, from which
it is thrown down to the guts. The contents of the
firft and fecond ftomachs are a colledtion of grafs and
other vegetables roughly macerated; a fermentation
however foon commences, which makes the grafs fwell.
The communication between the fecond and third fto¬
mach is by an opening much fmaller than the gullet,
and not fufficient for the paflage of the food in this ftate.
Whenever then the two iirft ftomachs, are diftended with
food, they begin to contrail, or rather perform a kind
of re-a<Jion. This re-aition comprefles the food, and
makes it endeavour to get out: Now the gullet being
larger than the paflage between the fecond and third fto¬
machs, the prefiure of the ftomach neceflarily forces it
up the gullet. The aflion of ruminating, however, ap¬
pears to be in a great meafure voluntary; as animals of
this kind have a power of increafing the re-ailion of their
ftomachs. After the food undergoes a fecond maftica
tion, it is then reduced into a thin pulp, which eafily
pafles from the fecond to the third ftomach, where it is
ft ill further macerated; from thence it pafles to the
fourth, where it is reduced to a perf€ii mucilage, every
way prepared for being taken up by the lafteals, and
converted into nourifliment. What confirms this ac¬
count of chewing the cud is, that as long as thefe ani¬
mals fuck or feed upon liquid aliment, they never rumi¬
nate ; and in the winter, when they are obliged to feed
upon hay and other dry victuals, they ruminate more
than when they feed upon frefti grafs.
Bulls, cows, and oxen, are fond of licking themfelves,
efpecially when lying at reft. But this pradice (hould
be prevented as much as poffible; for as the hair is an
undigeftible fubftance, it lies in the ftomach or guts, and
is gradually coated by a glutinous fubftance, w'hich in
time hardens into round ftones of a confiderable bulk,
which fometimes kills them, but.always prevents their
fattening, as the ftomach is rendered incapable of digeft-
ing the food fo well as it ought.
The age of thefe animals may be diftinguiftied by the
teeth and horns. The firft fore-teeth fall out at the age
of fix months, and are fucceeded by others of a darker
colour, and broader. At the end of fixteen months, the
next milk-teeth likewife fall out; and at the. beginning
of the fourth year all the fore-teeth are renewed, and
then they are long, pretty white, and equal : However,
as the animal advances in years, they become unequal
and blackifh. At the end of three years, the horns of
oxen fall off,. and new ones arife, which continue as long
as they live. The horns of oxen four years of age are
.fmall pointed, neat, andimooth, but thickeft near the
Vol. I. No. 27. 3
'25 ) BOS
head: This thick part next feafon is puftied further
from the head by a horny cylinder, which is aifo termi¬
nated by another fwelling part, and fo on, (for as long
as the ox lives, the horns continue to grow); and thefe
fwellings become fo many annular knots by which the
age may eafily.be reckoned: But, from-the point to the
firft knot muft be counted three years, and every fuc-
ceeding knot only one year.
Ox-beef is very nourifhing, and yields a ftrong aliment;
the flefti of a cow, when well fatted and young, is not
much inferior. Bull-beef is hard, tough, and dry ; for
which reafon it is not much ufed for food. Veal is well
tafted, eafy of digeftion, and rather keeps the body open
as otherwife.
The northern countries of Europe produce the heft
cattle of this kind. In general, they bear cold better
than heat; for this reafon, they are not fo plenty in the
fouthern countries. There are but few in Afia to the
fouth of Armenia, or in Africa beyond Egypt and Bar¬
bary. America produced none till they were carried
there by the Europeans. But the largeft are to be met
with in Denmark, Podolia, the Ukrain, and among the
Calmuck Tartars; likewife thofe of Ireland, England,
Holland, and Hungary, are much larger than thofe of
Perfia, Turkey, Greece, Italy, and Spain; but thofe
of Barbary are leaft of all. In all mountainous countries,
as Wales, the Highlands of Scotland, the black cattle
are exceedingly fmall, but hardy, and when fattened
make excellent beef. In Lapland, they are moftly white,
and many of them want horns. The bull, cow, and
ox, generally live about 14 or 15 years.
2. The bonafus, has a long main; its. horns are bent
round towards the cheek, and not above afpan in length.
It is about the fize of a large bull, and is a native of
Africa and Afia. When enraged, he throws out his dung
upon dogs or other animals that annoy him ; the dung
has a kind of cauftic quality which burns the hair off any
animal it falls upon.
3. The bifon, has likewife a long thick mane, which
covers the whole neck and breaft on each fide. The
horns are turned upwards, and exceedingly large; there is
a large protuberance or bunch on the back; his eyes are
red and fiery, which gives him a furious afpedt. He is
fierce, cruel, and fo bold that be fears nothing. It is
unfafe to hunt him but where the trees are large enough,
to hide the hunters. He is a native of Mexico and Flo¬
rida.
4. The grunniens, or hog-cow, has cylindrical horns,
bent backwards. The body is fo hairy, that the hair hangs
down upon its knees like a goat. The tail has a kind of
mane on eadh fide. The colour of the body is black ;
but the front is White. It has briftles on its back, tail,
and hind-legs. It is an inhabitant of the North of
Afia.
5. The bubalis, or buffalo, has large black horns
bent backward.and inward, and plain before. The hair
on the back is very hard, but thinly fcattered over the
body. It is a native of Afia. But they are tamed in
Italy, and ufed for the fame purpofes as black cattle in
other countries. They draw carriages, and are guided
t .7 T b7
BOS
by a rope tied to a ring thruft through their nofes.
The buffalo is larger than an ox, has a thicker body,
and a very hard hide. His pace is flow; but he will
carry a great burden. They feed in herds like cows,
and yield plenty of milk, of which very good butter and
cheefe is niade. Their flefh is pretty good, but not to
be compared to beef. The wdld buffalo is a very
fierce and dangerous animal; he often attacks tra¬
vellers, and tears them to pieces. However, they are
not fo much to be feared in woods as in the plains;
bccaufe their horns, which are fometimes ten feet long,
are apt to be entangled in the branches of trees, which
gives thofe who are furprifed by them time to efcape.
They are excellent fwimmers, and will crofs the
larged river without any difficulty. They run wild
in great troops on the coaft of Malabar, for which
reafon ftrangers are allowed to hunt and kill them at
pleafure.
6- The indices, or little Indian bufftlo, has horns
fhorter than its ears, a bunch on its back, and no
mane. It is about the fize of a calf fix months
old, and ufed in the Eaft Indies for drawing coaches,
<5r<r.
BOS/k, or Boss a, a town of Sardinia, fituated on its
weflern coad, at the mouth of a river of the fame name;
in 8° 30' E. long, and 40° 15' N. lat.
BOSCAGE, the fame with a grove, or thicket.
Boscage, in a law fenfe, is that food which trees yield
to cattle, as mad, &c. But Manwood fays, to be
quit of bofcage, is to be difcharged of paying any duty
for wind fall wood in the fored.
Boscage, among painters, denotes a landfcape repre-
fenting much wood and trees.
BOSCHETTO, in geography, a territory in the ifle of
Malta: And likewife an edate belonging to the grand
maders of that order, about two miles from Civita
Vecchia, in Italy.
BOSE A, in botany, a genus of the pentandria digynia
clsfs. The calix cocfids of five leaves; it has no co¬
rolla ; and the fruit is a dry, compreffed, membra¬
naceous berry. There is but one fpecies, viz. the
yervamora, a native of the Carribbee iflands.
BOSNA-SEPi AJO, the capital of the province of Bof-
nia, in 190 E. long, and 440 N. lat.
BOSNIA, a frontier province of Chridendom, divided
between the Houfe of Audria and the Turks; that
part of it lying eadward of the river Unna, belonging
to-the Turks; and the red of it, lying wedward of
that river, to the Audrians.
EOSPHOR.US, in geography, denotes, in general, a
narrow fea, or channel, feparating two continents, and
ferving as a communication between two Teas.
Bosphorus is more particularly ufed for the draits of
Condantinople, which divides Europe from Afia.
This was the original Bofphorus ; fo called becaufe
oxen could fwim over it : And from the refembknee
between it and the dreights of Kaffa, thefe lad were
anciently called the Cimmerian, as the former were the
Thracian Bofpborus.
BOSQUETS, in gardening, groves fo called from lef-
chetic, an Italian word, which fignifies a little wood.
BOS
They are compartments in gardens, formed by branched
of trees, difpofed either regularly in rows, or wildly
and irregularly, according to the fancy of the owner.
A bofquet is either a plot of ground inclofed with pa-
lifadoes of horn-beam, the middle of it being filled with
tall trees, as elm or the like, the tops of which make
a tuft or plume ; or it confids of only high trees, as
horfe-chefnut, elm, £sc. The ground diould be kept
very fmooth and rolled, or elfe covered with grals,
after the manner of green-plots. In planting bofquets,
care fliould be taken to mix the trees which produce
their leaves of different fha.pes, and various fliades of
green, and hoary or mealfy leaves, fo as to afford an
agreeable profpedt. Bofquets are only proper for fpa-
cious gardens, and require a great expence to keep
them up.
BOSS, or Bosse, in fculpture. See Relievo.
BOSSAGE, in architecture, a term ufed for any ftone
that has a projeCture, and is laid rough in a building,
to be afterwards carved into mouldings, capitals, coats
of arms, <bc.
Boffage is alfo that which is otherwife called ruflic
work, and confifls of (tones which advance beyond the
naked, or level, of the building, by reafon of inden¬
tures or channels left in the joinings. Thefe are
chiefly ufed in the corners of edifices, and thence call¬
ed rajlic quoins. The cavities or indentures are
fometimes round, fometimes chain-framed, or bevel¬
led, forhetimes in a diamond form, and fometimes in¬
clofed with a cavetto, and fometimes with a liftel.
BOSSINEY, a borough-town of Cornwal, fituated on
the Irifli channel, about fifteen miles north-weft of
Launcefton : W. long. 50, and N. lat. 50° qo7.
It fends two members to parliament.
BOSSORA, orBASsoRA, a large port-town of Afla-
tic Turky, in the province of Eyrac x^rabic; fituated
on the weftern fhore of the river Euphrates, about for¬
ty miles north-weft of the gulph of Perfia, or Boffora,
in E. long. 47°, and N. lat. 30°.
BOSSUPT, a town of Brabant, in the Auftrian Ne¬
therlands, about eight miles fouth of Louvain : E. Ion*
40 go7, and N. lat. 50° J27.
BOSTANGIS, in the Turkifh affairs, perfons employ¬
ed in the garden of the feraglio, out of whofe number
are collected thofe who are to row in the Grand Signioi’s
brigantines, when he has a mind to divert himfelf with,
fifliimg, or take the air upon the canal. They who row
on the left hand are only capable of mean employments
in the gardens ; but they who row on the right hand
may be promoted to the charge of boftangi-bachi, who-
has the general intendency of all the Grand Signior's
gardens, and commands above ten thoufand boftangis.
BOSTON, a port-town of Lincolnfhire, fituated near
the mouth of the river Witham, about twenty-fix miles
fouth-eaft of Lincoln : E. long. :j7, and N. lat. 530.
Boston, is alfo the name of the capital of New-England,
fituated on a peninfula,. at the bottom of a fine bay,
covered with fmall iftands and rocks, and defended by
a caftle and platform of guns: W. long. 71°, and
N. lat. 420 24'.
It is a fburiftiing town, wherein are ten churches,
fix.
( 626 )
BOV ( 627 ) B O T
fix of them belonging to independents. The number
of its inhabitants are computed to be about fourteen
thoufand.
BOSWORTH, a market town of Leicefterfhire, fmia-
ted about eleven miles fouth-weft of Leicefter : W.
long. ie 25', and N. lat. 520 45'.
BOTALE foramen, in anatomy, a name given to the
EOT
BOTANY is that branch of natural hiftory which
treats of the ufes, characters, clafles, orders, genera,
and fpecies of plants.
Before we explain the moft approved method of di-
Sect. I.. U S E S
'V^T'Hen this fcience is carried no further than to di-
’ * Ainguiih one plant from another, its ufts are few
and uninterelling. However, even this exercife is attended
with fome advantages. It is the firft, and a necelTary
Hep towards difcovering thofe of a more noble kind. It
is the rudiments of the fcience; and mult therefore be
acquired betore we can expect to arrive at any improve¬
ment that may be ufeful to mankind. This part of bo¬
tany is likewile more complete and fyftematic than many
other branches of natural hiftory. By means of the claf-
fical and genefic marks, we are enabled in a few minutes
to difcover the name of any plant, from whatever quar¬
ter of the globe it may be brought. This is exceedingly
curious, and altogether incredible to people unacquaint¬
ed with the nature of the fcience. When we have learnt
the name, we are then in a capacity of confulting authors
with regard to the peculiar properties of the plant, fo
far as they are known.
Belides, there is an elegance and fymmetry in plants,
which give rife to many agreeable emotions. Their
parts, like thofe of animals, are pofleffed of all the beau¬
ties of utility, regularity, uniformity, order, and pro¬
portion. Neither is there any clafs of natural bodies in
which the beauty of variety makes fucb a capital fi¬
gure. This variety is chiefly exhibited in the magnitude,
figure, colour, odour, and tafte of vegetables. It is
therefore natural to expedt, that the ftudy of botany ftiould
have fome influence in improving our tafte.
But as botany is confeffedly a branch of natural hifto¬
ry, the botanift ought not to confine his refearches to
tire mere names and charadlers of plants. He ought to
inquire into their qualities. Thefe qualities, indeed,
when we talk of vegetables in general, are exceedingly
numerous, and the inveftigation of many of them attend¬
ed with fuch difficulty,, that no perfon, however induftri-
foramen ovale, from Beta!!, phyfician to Charles IX.
to whom the difeovery of it is aferibed. See Fora¬
men ovale.
BOTANIST, a perfon flailed in botany. See Bo¬
tany.
BOTANOPHILI, perfons who have treated of plants,
not as botanifts, but as gardeners, phyficians, c,e.
A N Y.
ftinguiffiing plants, it will not be improper to inquire in¬
to the nature of the fcience, and what ufeful or orna¬
mental purpofes may be expected from the cultivation
of it.
of BOTANY.
ous, can ever expedt to unfold the whole. But this cir-
curaftance does not afford any argument for lofing fight
of utility altogether. On the contrary, it is the only
thing that can give dignity to the fcience, or entitle it to
be ranked as a branch of natural hiftory. There is but
little pleafure in ftudying a fcience which is already car¬
ried to its h’gheft pitch of improvement. The profpeft
of difcovering any thing that may be ufeful to mankind
ftimulates our induftry, and makes us profecute our it
learches with vigour and alacrity.
A botan f . or an inquirer into the nature and proper¬
ties of vegetables, ought to diredl his views principally
towards the inveftigation of ufeful qualities. For this
purpofe, in examining plants, he ffiould confider whe¬
ther they be pofl’efled of any qualities which may render
them of ufe in food, in medicine, or in any of the arts]
Thefe are objedls worthy the attention of philofophers.
Let us examine the afliftance that may be expe&ed from
the ftudy of botany with regard to thefe important articles.
t. Food.—Many animals are endowed with an inftinc-
tive faculty of readily diftinguiffiing whether the food that
is prefented to them be noxious or falutary. Mankind
have no fuch inftindt. They muft have recourfe to expe¬
rience and obfervation. But thefe are not fufficient to
guide us in every cafe. The traveller is often allured by
the agreeablenefs of fmell and tafte to eat poifonous
fruits. Neither will a general caution not to eat any
thing but what we know from experience to be falutary,
anfvver in every emergency. A (hip’s company, in want
of provifions, may be thrown upon an uninhabited coaft,
or a defert ifland. Totally ignorant of the nature of the
plants which they meet with;—difeafes, or fcarcity of
animals, may render it abfolutely necelfary to make ufe
of vegetable food.;—•the.confequence is dreadful: They
muft.
gaS B O T
mud: firfl: eat, before any certain conclufion can be formed.
This is not the defcription of danger arifing from an imagi¬
nary fituation. Before the vegetables that grow in Ame¬
rica, the Eafl: and Weft Indies, &c. became familiar to our
failors, many lives were loft by trials of this kind: Nei¬
ther has all the information received from experience
been fufficient to prevent individuals from ftill falling a
ptey to ignorance or raftinefs.
If the whole fcience of botany were as complete as
fome of its branches, very little flcill in it would be fuf-'
ficient to guard us infallibly from committing fuch fatal
miftakes. There are certain orders and claftes which
are called natural, becaufe every genus and fpecies com¬
prehended under them are not only diftinguilhed by the
lame chara&eriftic marks, but likewife polfefs the fame
qualities, though not all in an equal degree. For ex¬
ample : Shew a botanift the flower of a plant whofe calix
is a double-valved glume, with three ftamina, two pi-
ftils, and one naked feed, he can pronounce with abio-
lute certainty, that the plant from which the flower was
taken bears feeds of a farinaceous quality, and that they
may be fafely ufed as food. In like manner, flaew him
a flower with twelve or more ftamina, all inferred into
the internal fide of the calix; though it belonged to a
plant growing in Japan, he can pronounce, without hefi-
tation, that the fruit of it may be eat with fafety. On
the other hand, fhow him a plant whofe flower has five
ftamina,, one piftil, one petal or flower-leaf, and whofe
fruit is of the berry kind, he will tell you to abftainfrom
' eating it, becaufe it is poifonous. Many other examples
might be given : but we flaall referve them till we come
to the medical qualities.
Fa&s of this kind make botany not only a refpedtable,
but a moft interefting fcience. The French and fome
other nations ufe a greater variety of vegetable food than
the Britifti. This practice is attended with many advan¬
tages. The greater number of vegetables t:,at are made
ufe of in any country, the poor have the greater number
of refources when there happens to be a fcarcity of any
particular kind. It likewife affords an opportunity of a
more univerfal cultivation. When agriculture or gar¬
dening is confined to few plants, there is great hazard
from bad feafons and other unavoidable accidents, befides
the certain lofs arifing from allowing fuch foils as are im¬
proper for railing the ufual plants to lie unemployed.
Though we are principally influenced by example in in¬
troducing the culture of new plants; yet the advice and
direction of the botanift may be ufeful. From his know¬
ledge of the qualities of plants that grow in other coun¬
tries, he is enabled to guefs, with tolerable exa&nefs,
whether they will agree with the foil or climate in which
they are propofed to be cultivated. He can’ do more:
he can point out what particular fpecies of the plant will
be moft ealily naturalized. Befides, without having re-
courfe to the example of foreign countries, the botanift can
point out a number of plants that grow wild in his own
country, which might be cultivated with advantage, as
food either for men or cattle. For example, in the whole
clafs called diadslpbia by Linnseus, which includes the
polygala, or milk-wort; the anthyllis, or kidney-vetch ;
ANY.
the orobus, or heath-peafe; the lathyrus and vicia, which
comprehend a number of plants of the vetch-kind ; the
ornithopus, or bird’s-foot; the hedyfarum, or St-foin;
the aftragalus, or wild liquorice; the medicago, or lu¬
ce rn; the lotus, or bird’s-foot trifoil, <bc.; the leaves
are excellent food for cattle, and the feeds may be ufed
either by men or cattle. In like manner, all the feeds of
the grafs-kind, which belong to the triandria clafs of
Linnseus, and are very numerous, make excellent food
for men, and the leaves afford the heft pafture for cattle.
Many of the plants belonging to this clafs are not culti¬
vated in this country, though we have a great variety of
them growing wild.
It has been frequently obferved, that poor people, du¬
ring a fcarcity of corn, have been induced to fill their
bellies with fubftances that were both pernicious and
loathfome, while they were trampling under their feet
plants that would at once have afforded good nourifh-
ment and been highly grateful. This conduit could
proceed from nothing but their ignorance of the nature
and effedts of thefe plants, and from their not being able
to diftinguifli the noxious ones from the falutary. It is the
duty of every man to point out the remedy for calamities
of this kind, efpecially when it is not impoflible that the
capfes which produced them may exift in fome future pe¬
riod. For this purpofe, we fhall fubjoin a fhort lift of
native plants that may be eat with fifety and advantage.
Salicornia Europaea, or marfh-famphire, jointed glafs-
wort, or faltwort. This plant grows plentifully near
the fea-coafts, and eats very well with fait and vinegar.
Veronica becabunga, or common brook-lime. This
plant, which grows in marfties, is commonly gathered in
the fpring, and eat as a faliad.
Valeriana locufta, lamb’s-lettuce, or corn-fallet, grows
in corn-fields and pafture-grounds. The leaves are rec¬
koned more wholefome than the common lettuce culti¬
vated in dur gardens.
Scirpus maritimus, or round-rooted cyperus, grows
near the fea-fhores. The root confifts of a number of
knots, which, after being dried and grinded, have been
frequently ufed as bread when provifions were fcarce.
Bromus fecalinus, or field brome-grafs, grows in vaft
quantities in rye-fields, efpecially after the rye is cut
down. The feeds of this plant, mixed with grain of a
better quality, make very good bread : But if the quan¬
tity of brome-grafs feeds , be great, the people who ufe
the bread are apt at firft to be afFedfed with a flight de¬
gree of intoxication ; but this effeft ceafes, after being a
little accuftomed to the food.
Feftuca fluitans, or flote-fefeue-grafs, grows in ditches
and marfliy places. In Sweden and Germany, the feeds
are ufed in broths and gruels, on account both of their
nutritive quality and agreeable flavour. When grindid,
and made into bread, they are efteemed little inferior to
wheat or oats.
Triticum repens, common wheat-grafs, dog’s-grafs;
quick-grafs, or couch-grafs, grows fo plentifully in our
fields, that it is a great objedt with farmers to root it out.
The roots of this plant, after being walhed, dried, and
grinded, have often been ufed as bread in a dearth of corn.
With
B O T
With regard to the other kinds of grafs, the feeds of them
may be fafeJy ufed as food; but fome of them are fo
fmall, that a fufficient quantity cannot eafily be collected.
Campanula, or bell-flower. Nine or ten fpecies of
bell-flower grow in Britain. Both the roots and leaves,
when boiled, efpecially before the llalk grows up, may be
ufed.
Chenopodium bonus henricus, common Englifli mer¬
cury, or all-good, grows almoft everywhere. This plant
is ufed in broth by the country-people, in place of cabbage
or other pot-herbs. When the young leaves and (talks
are drefled with butter, they are not inferior, in their
flavour and nutritive power, to afparagus or fpinage.
Eryngium maritimum, fea-holly, or eryngo, gene¬
rally grows near the fea-fhore. The young twigs, pre¬
pared as afparagus, are grateful to the tafte, very nou-
rifliing, and give vigour to the body.
Daucus carota, wild carrot, or bird’s-neft, grows in
every field. It is the fame fpecies with the carrot culti¬
vated in gardens, and is equally nourilhing.
Heracleum fphondylium, or cow-parfnip. The inha¬
bitants of Poland and Lithuania make a fermented liquor
of the feeds and leaves, which the poorer fort ufe as ale.
The inhabitants of Camfcatka eat the (talks, after peel¬
ing off the bark.
Carum carvi, or caraways, grows in meadows and
pafture-grounds. The young roots of this plant are
more agreeable to the tafte than the parfnip, and there¬
fore might be of great fervice to the poor in a dearth of
provifions.
Convallaria polygonatum, or fweet-fmelling Solomon’s-
feal, grows in the cliffs of rocks. The roots are made
into bread, and eat by the inhabitants of Lapland, when
corn is fcarce. The Turks ufe the young (talks as afpa¬
ragus.
Bunium bulbocaftanum, earth-nut, kipper-nut, pig¬
nut, or hawk-nut, grows plentifully on lea-grounds, the
banks of rivers, (ides of hills, <bc. The roots are very
fweet, afford excellent nourifhment, and may be eat ei¬
ther raw, boiled, or roafted.
Vaccinium uliginofum, the great bilberry-bufh, grows
upon high grounds. The berries are much eat by chil¬
dren ; but when taken in too great quantity, are apt to
occafion a giddinefs and headach.
Vaccinium myrtyllis, black whom, whortle-berries.
or bilberries, grows in woods. The berries have a fine
flavour, and may be eat with fafety.
Vaccinium vitis idea, red whorts, or whortle-berries,
grows on hills. The berries are eat in the autumn, and
many people make an excellent jelly of them.
Polygonum viviparum, frnall biftort, or fnake-weed,
grows upon high grounds. The roots may be prepared
into bread. In Lapland and the northern parts of Eu¬
rope, it is principally eat along with the flelh of (tags
and other wild animals.
Spergula arvenfis, or corn-fpurrey, grov/s in corn¬
fields, efpecially in fandy foils. In Norway, they col-
left the feeds of this plant, and make them into bread.
Sedum rupeftre, or St Vincent’s rock ftone-crop, grows
on high grounds. The Swifs cultivate this plant, and
ufe it as a pot-herb.
Vol. I. Numb. 27. 3
ANY. 6i9
Primus padus, wild clufter-cherry, or bird’s-cherry,
grows in woods and hedges. Some people eat the ber*
ries with fait.
Prunus fpinofa, the black-thorn, or (loe-tree, grows in
hedges and woods. The berries are very auftere; but
the leaves are tender, and, when gently toafted, may be
ufed in place of tea.
Prunus cerafus, or black-cherry, grows likewife in
woods and hedges. The berries are eat both in a crude
and dried (late. When this plant is wounded, a gun>
exfudes from it nearly of the fame quality with gum-
arabic. Dr Haffelquift informs us, that above 100 mer,
when befieged in an Egyptian town, were preferved alive
for more than two months, without any other fuftenance
than they derived from the ufe of this gum.
Crataegus aria, or the white bean-tree, grows in woods.
The berries are eat by the peafants ; and in Sweden they
are prepared and ufed as bread when there is a fcarcity of
Crataegus oxycantha, the white thorn, or hawthorn,
grows every where in woods and hedges. The berries,
when dried and grinded, are fometimes made into bread
but it is apt to bind the belly too much.
Sorbus aucuparia, the quicken-tree, or mountain-afh,
grows in woods. Very good cyder is made of the ber¬
ries ; and, when dried, they make very wholefome bread.
Rofa canina, red-flowered dog’s-rofe, or hip-tree,
grows in hedges. The berries afford excellent nourifh¬
ment, and may either be eat in a crude date, or dried
and made into bread.
Spiraea filipendula, or drop-wort, grows in pafture-
grounds and the fides of hills. The roots of this plant,
which are compofed of fmall tubercles like peafe, when*
dried and grinded, make tolerably good bread.
Ranunculus ficaria, pile-wort, or leffer celadine, grows,
in pafture-grounds, ebc. The Norwegians colleft the
leaves in the fpring, and life them in broth.
Origanum vulgare, or wild marjoram, grows in hedges
and among bru(h-wood. The leaves of this plant, when
toafted, and infufed in boiling water, have fuch a refem-
blance to tea, that it is difficult to make a diftinftion.
As tea is fo univerfally ufed in diet, it is much to be re¬
gretted that the ladies cannot be prevailed upon to prefer
this or fome other of our own plants, and thereby fave
fome millions fterling annually to their country.
Stachys paluftris, or clown’s all-heal, grows in marfhes
and the banks of rivers. The roots are fucculent, and
may be ufed either boiled, or dried and made into bread.
Melampyrum arvenfe, or purple cow-wheat, grows in
corn-fields. Bread is fometimes made of the feeds; but
it is a little bitter.
Sinapis arvenfis, wild muftard, or charlock, grows
plentifully in corn-fields, <bc.. The leaves of this plant
are often ufed in broth.
Crambe maritima, or fea-colewort, grows in fandy
ground near the fea-fliore. The leaves, when young and
tender, may be ufed in place of cabbage; but when too
old, are apt to make the head giddy.
Malva rotundifolia, or dwarf-mallow, and malva fyl-
veftris, or common mallow, are every where to be met
with. The leaves of both thefe plants maybe ufed in broth.
7 U t Orobus
6^0 B O T
Orobus tuberofus, wood-peafe, or heath-peafe, grows
in pafture-ground, woods, hedges, &c. The roots,
when boiled, or made into bread, afford excellent nou-
rilhment.
Pifum maritimum, or fea-peafe. In the year 1655,
when a great famine prevailed in England, the poor peo¬
ple in Oxfordfhire lived principally upon the feeds of this
plant.
Trifolium repens, or white clover, grows in meadows
and paflure-grounds. The flowers of this plant, when
dried, make tolerably good bread.
Trifolium pratenfe, purple or honeyfuckle clover.
The Scotch, when opprefied with a famine, ufed bread
made of the flowers of this plant. And indeed bread
may be made of the flowers of every plant belong¬
ing to the clafs called diadelphia, which comprehends
near 600 fpecies.
Hipochrsefls maculata, or fpotted hawk weed, grows on
high pafture-grounds. The peafants of Norway ufe the
leaves as cabbage.
Sonchus oleraceus, or common fow-tbiftle. The
young leaves eat exceedingly well when boiled.
Tragopodon pratenfe, or yellow goat’s-beard, grows
in meadows and pafture-grounds. The roots, when dug
up before the plant flowers, have a fine flavour, and are*
very nouriftimg
Aretium lappa, or burdock. The young ftalks, when
the bark is taken off, eat, when boiled, like afparagus.
Some people ufe them in a crude .ftate, with oil and vi¬
negar.
Carduus paluftris, or marfli-thiftle. Almoft all the
fpecies of thiftle may be ufed in the fame manner as the
burdock.
Urtica dioica, or common nettle. The ufe of this
plant as a pot-herb is well known.
Quercus robur, or common oak. Acorns, during a
famine, have often been made into bread.
Fagus fylvatica, or beach tree. Bread has fometimes
been made of the nuts; but unlefs they be well dried,
the bread made of them will produce a flight degree of
intoxication
Corylus avellana, or the hafel-nut tree. Every body
knows the agreeable flavour and nutritive quality of ha-
fel nuts.
Finns fylveftris, or Scots fir. The Norwegians and
others make bread of this tree in the following manner:
They felett fuch trunks as are mod fmooth and have leaft
refin ; they take off the bark, then dry it in the {hade,
and afterwards toaft it over a fire and grind it into meal.
They generally mix with it a little oat-meal or barley.
This bread, made of fir-bark, is not only ufed in a fcar-
city of provifions, hut is eat at all times by the poorer
fort.
Lichen iflandicus, or eryngo-leaved liver-wort, grows
among heath and upon high grounds. The inhabitants
of Iceland have long ufed this plant, both boiled, and in
the form of bread.
A N Y.
Lichen velleus, or fleecy liver-wort, grows upon hills.
In time of famine, the inhabitants ufed this plant for
food.
Fungus, or mufhroom. The fpecies of this plant are
Very numerous. Some of them are ufed by the rich,
rather as a feafoning, than as food. When taken in too
great quantity, they are abfolutely indigeftible ; and, un¬
lefs thrown up from the ftomach, will prove as fatal as
the mofl: deadly poifon. The poor, therefore, who
would be very apt to fall into this error, had better re¬
frain from the ufe of muftirooms altogether.
From this fhort lift of efculent plants that grow wild
in our own country, we fee how liberally we are provi¬
ded with refources in cafe of a fcarcity of the vegetables
ufually cultivated for food, and at the fame time the ad¬
vantages that might be derived from a very flight degree
of knowledge in botany. Many of thefe plants grow beft
in foils which cannot be employed for raifing corn of any
kind. Befides, they are exceedingly hardy, and fuffer
but little from feafons, which in a great meafure deftroy
the more delicate plants which we cultivate with fo much
labour and expence. It may be further remarked, that
many improvements in agriculture and the ufeful part of
gardening might be expefted from propagating a tafte for
refearches into the nature.and properties of vegetables.
2. Medicine.—It is an unhappy circumftance, that
the bulk of phyficians in all ages have been more remark¬
able for their attachment to the abftrufe and ufelefs
parts of the fcience, than to the nature and cure of dif-
eafes, the proper obje&s of their profeffion. Inftead of
difputing in (olio how fuch a plant cures fuch a difeafe,
had they exerted their induftry and genius in afcertain-
ing the fa<ft, and then proceeded to make further inqui¬
ries into the qualities of other fimples, the pra&ice of
phyfic would not have been a thing of fuch a fludtuating
nature as it ever has been, and ftiil continues to be.
Many pradfttioners, fome of them men of confiderable
abilities, affedhto defpife the fcience of botany, alledging
that it affords no afliftance to their art; and that it is very
ufelefs to load their memories with a long catalogue of
hard names, without being a whit the wifer with regard
to the medical properties. Befides, they imagine every
fingle genus and fpecies of the whole vegetable tribes
to be pofleffed of peculiar and diftindt properties ; and
that it would require the labour of a whole life-time to
afcertain the virtues of a few plants.
It muft indeed be confeffed that the writers and teach¬
ers of.botany have not been fufficiently careful to prevent
refledtions of this kind. The technical part of the fci¬
ence ingroffes their chief attention : If the virtues are
talked of, it is only in a curfory manner: The only thing,
that can render the fcience refpedlable, is either totally
omitted in their fyftems, ordifpatched in a line or two.
But we are happy to find, that the fcience begins now to
get fome footing in this country. By the induftry and
fpirit of a worthy Profeffor#, the tafte has been propa¬
gated
* Dr John Hope profefFbr of medicine and botany in the univerfity of Edinburgh. Immediately after the Dodtor’s ad-
Tniifion to the botanical chair, he offered gold and fdver medals to his ftudents for the beft collections of indigenous.
plants
B O T
gated in a few years far beyond what could have been ex¬
pected, efpecially when the ftate of the country before
that period is taken into confideration.
We have no doubt of being able to fhew, that botany,
even in its prefent ftate, is fo far from lying open to the
objections brought againft it by thofe who are either un¬
acquainted with it, or affedt to defpife it as ufelefs and
trifling, that we have little reafon to hope for any exten-
five infight into the medical virtues of plant^ by any o-
ther means.
In order to bring the numerous tribes of vegetables
under certain xlaffes or denominations, various methods
have been adopted by different authors. Some have
clafted them by thef figure of their roots; fome by the
caulis or ftems ; fome by the leaves. Linnasus has pre¬
ferred the parts of fruClificatiorv becaufe thefe are not
only the moft eflential, but likewife the moft univerfal.
This method of claffing is preferable to any that has
been propofed, on many accounts. It is found by ex¬
perience, that plants which are diftinguifhed by the fame
characters in the flower and fruit, have precifely the fame
qualities, though not always in an equal degree as to
ftrength or weaknefs ; fo that, upon infpeCtion of the
flower and fruit, abotanift can determine a prisri the ef¬
fects that will refult from the plant when taken into the
ftomach. Here then is a foundation for natural clafles.
In order, therefore, to determine the medical virtues of
all the plants belonging to a natural clais, the phyfician
has nothing further to do than to afcertain, by a fet of
clear and unqueftionable experiments, the virtues of
any one of them. This greatly fliortens the labour of
inveftigation. Suppofing the number of known fpecies
to be 20,000, by aicertaining the virtues of one genus,
at a medium, you determine the virtues of 12 fpecies.
But, by afcertaming the virtues of one genus belonging
to a natural order, the virtues of perhaps 300' or 400!
fpecies are afcertained. Again, by afcertaining the vir¬
tues of one genus belonging to a natural clafs, 'you dif-
cover the virtues of perhaps 800 or iooo fpecies.
As this branch of the materia medica has been hither¬
to greatly negleCted, we {hall fubjoin a few examples of
natural orders and clafles, with the virtues they are fup-
pofed to poflefs.
The Stei.lat^e of Mr Ray, which make the 44th
natural order of Linnaeus, are faid to be all diuretics.
Of thefe, the rubia and afperula are remarkable for their
diuretic and detergent qualities, and as fuch are admit¬
ted into both the Edinburgh and London difpenfatories.
The aparine, gallium, poflefs the fame qualities,
though not perhaps in an equal degree.
The AsPERiFOLiiE of Ray, belong to the pentandria
monogynia clafs, with one petal and four feeds, of Lin-
nseus, nd form his 43d natural order. The plants^)!
this order are faid to be aftringent and vulnerary. Un¬
der it the following genera are comprehended : Tourne-
A N Y. 63 r
fortia, cerinthe, fymphytum, pulmonaria, borrago, cy-
nogloflum, anChufa, lithofpermum, myofotis, heliotropi-
um, afperugo, lycopfis, echium.
The plants included under the Pentandria, with
one ftylus, one flower-leaf, and which bear berries, form
the 33d natural order, and are generally poifonous. To
this order belong all the folaha, or night-lhades ; the
mandragora and atropa, which are well known to be
poiidnons ; the hyofcyamus and datura occafion madnefs
and death ; the verbafcum intoxicates and kills fifties.
The UMBELLATiE, which make the 22d natural or¬
der, are faid to be aromatic, refolvent, and carminative,
efpecially thofe that grow in a dry foil; but fuch of
them as grow in a wet foil are faid to be poifonous. The
virtues refide in the roots and feeds. To this order be¬
long the daucus creticus, gentiana alba, filer montanum,
ammi verum petrofelinum macedonicum, 4yc.
The roots of the plants belonging to the Hexandria
clafs, are either efculent or poifonous, Thefe qualities
may be diftinguiftied by the tafte andfmell. In the yth,
8th, 9th, and icth natural orders, the following poifon¬
ous plants of the hexandria clafs are enumerated, viz. the
leucoium, galanthus, pancratium, amaryllis, fritillaria,
corona imperialis, gloriofa, convallaria, hyacinthus, a-
loes, <bc. The allium, cepa, and parum, are acrid;
and, when taken in too great a quantity, are highly cor-
rqfive; but, as this hurtful quality is owing to a vola¬
tile alkaline fubftance in the roots, when they are roaft-
ed or boiled it flies off, and they may be eat with fafety.
The fruit of all the plants belonging to the Icosan-
dria clafs, which are enumerated in the 36th, 37th,
38th, and 39th natural orders, are efculent, and not
one of them poifonous. To this clafs belong the euge-
nia, punica, cerafus, crategus, pyrus. rofa, fragaria, &c.
The plants belonging to the Polyan-dria clafs, cr the
23d natural order, are moftly poifonous, > the nym-
phasa, argemone, papaver, aflsea,. bocconia, euphorbia,
delphinium, ftaphifagria, aconitum, nigella, errhina, a-
quilegia, hclleborus, <bc
The leaves of the plants belongingto the Didynamia
Gymnospermia, or 58th natural order, are faid to be
cephalic and refolvent. This order contains the ajuga,
teucrium, hyfopus, lavendula' mentha, lamium, betonica,
ballota, leonurus, origanum, thymus, melifla, draeo-
cephalum, fac.
The plants belonging to the Tetradynamia clafs,
or the 57th natural order, are antifcorbutic, and a little
acrid; e. g. the lepidium, cbchlearia, raphanus, carda-
mine, finapis, eryfimum barbarea, fifymbrium, cjrr.
All the plants of the Monodebphia clafs, which
form the 34th natural order, are emollient and mucila¬
ginous. Whoever knows the qualities of the althea and
malva, knows the qualities of the whole clafs, which
comprehends about 180 fpecies. The emollient and mu¬
cilaginous virtues are not confined to the leaves or any
par-
plants prepared in the manner of a hortus fxccus. The confequence of this plan fully anfwered his expectations. In
1i few years, he was in pofleiiion of many more plants than .were ever formerly fuppofed to grow in Scotland. After this
acquifitron, the Dr judicioufly changed the objeCt of his medals, and offered them for the heft accounts of the fenfible
qualities and medical virtues of any number of native plants. But we are forry to find, that no gentlemen ha.ve hither¬
to become candidates for thefe medals fince they were offered upon this fenfible and ufeful plan.
6*2 B O T
particular part, but are difFufed through the whole
plant.
The Diadelph ia clafs forms the 55th natural order.
This clafs comprehends above 500 fpecies; and, as was
obferved above, the feeds of every one of them are efcu-
lent, the leaves afford excellent pafture for cattle, and
not one of them have any poifonous quality.
The Syngenesia clafs, or 2ill natural order, con¬
tains a very great number of fpecies. The virtues of
fome plants belonging to this clafs are faid to differ con-
fiderably. The bardana, carlina, tuflilago, arnica, ci-
chorium, fcorzonera, taraxacum, <bc. are fuppofed to
be deobftruent, and are kept as fuch in the fhops. But
the greateft number of them are bitter and ftomachic ;
e. g. the abfinthium abrotanum, artemifia, fantojina,
balfamita, tanacetum eupatorium, matricaria, chamo-
milla, acmella, verbefina,
TheGynandk.iaDiandr.ia,or4thnatural order, are
faid to excite venery; e. g. the orchis, fatyrium, ferapias,
herminium, ophrys, epidendrum, tic. The roots of
thefe are ufed with this intention by practitioners.
The Amentace^e Acifoli/g, or 15th natural or¬
der, are refinous; e. g. the pinus, abies, juniperus, cu-
preffus, tic. They are all warm flimulants and diuretics.
The virtues of theCRYPTOGAMiA clafs, which compre¬
hends the 61 ft, 62ft, 63d, and 64th natural orders5 are
moftly of a fufpicious nature. Hardly any of the filices
are efculent; their fmell is difagreeable, and they are faid
to kill worms. All the mufci, except the lichen iflan-
dicus, are improper for food. Some of the fungi are eat;
but they are a very dangerous food.
Plants which have their neftaria feparate from the
flowers, are commonly poifonous ; e. g. the epimedium,
nigella, aquilegia, aconitum, monotropa, helleborus, tic.
Thofe plants which are called lattefcent, from their
oozing out a whitifh juice upon being wounded, are ge¬
nerally poifonous; e. g. the euphorbia, papaver, peri-
ploca, cynanthum, tic. But thofe which are called
femiflofculofis hyTonmtfon, are of a milder nature; e.g.
laftuca, hieracium, crepis, leontodon, tic.
Befides natural clafles and orders, which prefuppofe
fome acquaintance with botany, we are provided with
other means of difcovering the general qualities of plants.
The fenfations of fmell and tafte give us fome intima¬
tion of the nature and qualities of plants. An agreeable
tafte or fmell is feldom accompanied with noxious quali¬
ties ; on the other hand, when thefe fenfes are difagree-
ably affedted, the qualities are generally more or lefs
noxious, being either purgative, emetic, or poifonous.
Plants that have a fweet tafte are generally nutritive;
thofe that have a fait tafte are warm and ftimulant.
Plants of an acrid tafte are corrofive; but, when de¬
prived of their acrimony by drying, fome of them become
fit for food. Bitter plants are alkaline, ftomachic, and
fometimes of a fufpicious nature. Acid plants are cool¬
ing, and allay thirft; but thofe of an auftere tafte are
aftringent.
Even the colour and afpedl of plants throw fome light
upon their nature. Flowers or fruit of a red colour are
generally acid. Yellow flowers indicate a bitter tafte.
plants that have green flowers are crude; thofe of a pale
ANY.
colour are commonly infipid thofe of a white colour are
generally fweet; and thofe whofe flowers have a gloomy
and difmal afpedt, are moftly poifonous.
Thefe examples naturally fuggeft the following obferva-
tions.—The Creator of the univerfe hath endowed us with
fufficient abilities for inveftigating the virtues of plants, and
applying them to the cure of difeafes and other ufeful pur-
pofes, even on the fuppofrtion that we were obliged to
afcenain the virtues of every Angle plant by experiments.
But this labour, though pradticable in a courfe of years,
and under proper regulations, is greatly abridged. The
information afforded by the fenfes is confiderable. Our
inquiries are ftill further aflifted by the general diftribu-
tion of vegetables into tribes and families. The mutual
relation and connedlion of thefe tribes depend not upon
fancy or conjedture : The relations are fo ftrongly mark¬
ed by the fimilarity of their flowers, fruit, and fenfible
qualities, that they are confpicuous at firft fight.
A perfon unacquainted with medicine, from this view
of the virtues of plants, will be apt to imagine, that bo¬
tany is the only road to that fcience; and of courfe
that every phyfician muft either be a good botanift, or a
bad pradlitioner. The thought is natural, and, with
fome limitation, not unjuft. The common pradHee of
phyfic does not require an extenfive Ikill in the virtues
of plants. A certain number of vegetables and other
fubftances are kept in the fhops, and recommended for
particular purpofes in difpenfatories and books of pradtice.
It is the bufinefs of the pradlitioner to have a general ac¬
quaintance with thefe, and to prefcribe them according
to the cuftom of the times. But inveftigations into the
nature and properties of fimples or drugs, require more
time than can be bellowed by men of bufinefs. When¬
ever any fcience is converted into a trade, and the ftudy
of it confined to people who muft live by it, there is little
profpedt of improvement. This has been the fate^of phy¬
fic. Every body difpenfes medicines; but few ate none
inquire into their virtues. Some valuable medicines
have been difcovered. But by whom ? Not by phyficians,
but by favages, old women, priefts, and chymills. Un¬
til, therefore, the ftudy of phyfic be confidered as a
branch of natural hiftory, and cultivated by people who
have time to make experiments, the fcience muft conti¬
nue to be vague, defultory, and limited in its utility.
Botany has always been confidered as a branch of na¬
tural hiftory. But, as was formerly obferved, the ufe¬
ful part of it hath been too much negiedted. The vir¬
tues of plants may be fuccefsfully mveftigated without
an extenfive knowledge in all the branches of the medical
art. To propagate a tafte for inquiries into the nature
and properties of vegetables, would therefore lay the moll
folid foundation for improvements in medicine.
3. Art s.—The application of the qualities of vege¬
tables to the various mechanical arts affords a moft ex¬
tenfive field for ufeful obfervation. There are few plants,
however different in their nature, but are found by ex¬
perience to be not only the moft proper, but effentially
neceffary, in fome particular art or employment.
The qualities which render vegetables fo generally ap¬
plicable to mechanical employments are principally thefe :
Softnefs
B O T
Softnefs or hardnefs of texture, elafticity, inflammability,
aftringency, colour, drc. Hence fome plants are proper
for domeftic utenfils, others for dying, tunning, <bc.
Some may be apt to think that qualities of this kind are
not the proper objects of botany. But if the natural
hidorian be at liberty to neglect ufeful qualities, he de-
ferves little thanks for expatiating on thofe that are ufe-
lefs. It would be foreign to our deflgn in this place,' to
enumerate the particular plants that are ufed for the va¬
rious purpofes of the mechanic. We fliall however, by
way of fpecimen, fubjoin a lift of plants that change the
colour of cloths and other fubftances.
List 0/Dying Plants.
YELLOW.
Curcuma, or turmeric. This plant grows in the Eafl:
Indies; the root of it tinges a rich yellow colour; but it
is not very durable.
Rumex maritimus, or golden dock, grows on road-
fides, <bc. The root dyes a fine yellow.
Thaliftrum flavum, or meadow-rue, grows in marfhes,
on the banks of rivers, 6v. Both the root and the leaves
dye a very deep yellow.
Urtica dioica, or common nettle. The country people
dye eggs a beautiful yellow with the rootsof this plant at
the fealt of Eafler.
Santaium album, or white fanders. The wood of this
tree, which is a native of the Eafl: Indies, dyes a good
yellow.
Lawfonia inermis, or alkanna, is a fmall fhrub culti¬
vated in Afia and Africa. The ftem and branches of this
plant afford an excellent yellow; the natives paint their
bodies with it. The root, prepared with quick-lime,
gives a fine fhining red. The natives ufe it for dying
their teeth, nails, faces, the mains of their horfes, lea¬
ther, <bc.
Morns tinftoria, or fuftic, grows in America. The
wood of this tree is in great efteem among dyers for the
line yellow it affords.
Rhamnus frangula, or the black berry-bearing alder,
grows in woods and hedges. The bark tinges a dull yel¬
low; and the unripe berries dye woollen fluffs green.
Rhamnus catharticus, or purging buck-thorn, grow's
wild in woods and hedges. The bark gives a beautiful
yellow.
Rhamnus minor, grows in the fouthern parts of Europe.
The berries give an excellent yellow.
Rhus Coriaria, or fumach, grows in Italy, <bc. The
bark of the ftem gives a yellow colour, and the bark of
the root a yellowilh red.
Berberis vulgaris, barberry or pipperidge-bufh. The
root of this plant gives an excellent yellow’to cloth ; and
the bark gives leather a beautiful yellow colour.
Prunes domeftica, or common plumb-tree. The coun-
trypeople ufe the bark for dying their cloth yellow.
Pyrus mains, or apple-tree. The dyers ufe the bark
for giving cloth a yellow colour.
Car pin us betulus, the horn or hard beam tree, horfe
or horn-beach tree, grows in woods. The bark is ufed
as a yellow dye.
Vol. I. No. 27. 3
A N Y. 633
Refeda luteola, or bafe-rocket, grows in pafture-grounds,
meadows, and efpecially on a chalky foil. This herb,
which is a native of Scotland, gives cloth a moft beauti¬
ful yellow colour, and is much ufed by dyers, who import
it in large quantities, though it might be ealily cultivated
in our own country.
Serratula tinftoria, or faw-wort, grows in woods and
meadows. This plant gives the fame colour with the
refeda, and, though not fo beautiful, is much ufed by
dyers.
Hierachium umbellatum, or narrow-leaved buftiy
hawkweed, grows in woods, hedges, and gravelly foils.
This plant gives a very fine yellow.
Acanthus mollis, is a native of Italy. It appears that
this plant was ufed by the ancients for dying yellow :
Et circumtextum crcceo vela men acantho. Virg.
Bidens tripartita, or trifid water hemp-agrimony, grows
in marfhy places. This plant gives a pretty elegant yellow.
Xanthium ftrumarium, or lefler burdock, grows near
dunghills. When this plant is boiled entire, together with
the fruit, it gives a pretty good yellow.
Salix pentandra. or fweet willow. The dried leaves
give a fine yellow.
Betula alba, or birch-tree. The leaves give a faint
yellow colour to cloth.
Stachys filvatica, or hedge-nettle, grows in woods and
hedges, and gives a yellow colour to cloth.
Centaurea jacea, or common knapweed, grows in pa-
fture and barren grounds. This plant is often ufed as a
fuccedaneum for the ferratula or faw-wort.
Polygonum perficaria, dead or fpotted arfmart, grows
in corn-fields, tec. and dyes cloth yellow.
Lyfimacha vulgaris, yellow willow-herb, or loofe-ftrife^
grows in marfhes, and on the banks of rivers. This herb
laid to dye yellow.
Scabiofa fuccifa, or devii’s-bit, grows in meadows and
pafture-grounds. The dried leaves give a yellow colour;
but it is feldom ufed.
Anthyllus vulneraria, kidney-vetch, or ladies-finger,
grows on dry pafture-grounds. The country people ufe
this plant for dying their cloth yellow.
Lichen juniperus, or juniper-liverwort, grows on the
trunks and branches of trees. Lichen parietinus, or
common liver-wort, grows on walls and the bark of trees.
Lichen candelarius, or yellow liverwort. Thefe three
fpecies of liverwort are ufed by the common people for
dying their fluffs yellow.
Anthemis tinfloria, or common ox-eye, grows on
high grounds. The flowers give a bright yellow colour.
Chserophyllum fylveftre, wild cicely, or cow-weed,
grows in hedges, <bc. The umbel or tops and flowers
of this plant give an excellent yellow.
Thafpia villofa, or deadly carrot, grows in Spain ;
and its umbel is ufed as a yellow dye by the inhabitants
of that country.
Genifta tinftoria, green wood, dyers-weed or wood¬
waxen, grows in pafture-grounds, <bc. The flowers are
much ufed as a yellow dye.
Hypericum perforatum, or St. John’s wort, grows
among brufh-wood and in hedges. The flowers are ufed
as a yellow dye, but it is not much efteemed.
t 7 X
Calen-
634 B O T
Calendula officinalis, or garden marygold. The dried
flower-leaves are fometimes ufed as a yellow dye:. Their
cxprefled juice, boiled with alum, makes an excellent .yel¬
low paint.
R E D.
Rubia tinftorum, or madder, grows in the fouthern
parts of Europe. The roots are much ufed by dyers for
giving a red colour to cloth.
Gallium boreale, or crofswort madder ; gallium ve-
rum, yellow ladies bed-ftraw, or cheefe-rening. Both
thefe plants grow plentifully in our own country; and
their roots are ufed for dying cloth red.
Lithofpermum tindoritim, grows in France. The
root gives a red colour, but it is not eafily fixed.
Rumex acetofa, or common fond, grows in meadows
and pafture-grounds The root is ufed by apothecaries
for tinging decoftions, <bc. with a red colour; but it is
not ufed by dyers.
Csefalpina Brafdienfis, or Brjifd wood, is a native of
th’e Eaft Indies. The wood is commonly ufed by the
dyers for giving a red colour.
Calamus ro’ang,, or dragon’s blood, is an Eafl-India
fruit. The infpiifated juice is principally ufed by apo¬
thecaries for giving a red tinge to their medicines.
Bixa orellana, .grows in both the Indies. The feeds
of this tree are much ufed as a red dye, and the natives
gf America paint their bodies with them.
PURPLE.
Casfalpinia veficaria. The wood of this tree gives a
purple dye. The csefalpinia fappan is ufed for the fame
purpofe. The lignum rubrum, or Fernambuca wood,
gives likewife a reddifh purple dye.
Origanum vulgare, or wild marjoram, grows in woods,
fee, The tops of this plant are ufed for dying cloth
purple.
Carthamus tinftorius, is an annual plant, and a native
of Egypt. The corollas of this plant give a fiery red
colour to cloth; but they are principally ufed for dying
filks.
B L U E.
Ifa-tis tinfloria, or woad. This plant grows wild in
c.orn-fields, and gives a blue colour to cloth.
Indigo'fera tinfloria, or indigo, grows in the Eafi In¬
dies. The blue dye given to cloth by this plant is pre¬
ferable to any other; becaufe it is of fo fixed and durable
a nature, that it is not affe&ed either, by acid or alkaline
fubftances.
Galega tindoria, is a perennial plant of Zeylon. Her-
mannus affirms, that the blue obtained from this plant is
even preferable to the indigo, although it has never hi¬
therto been ufed by Europeans.
ANY.
Fraxinus excelfior, or common afh-tree. The batk
tinges water blue ; and the inner bark is faid to give cloth
a yery good blue colour.
VIOLET.
Haematoxylon campechianum, or logwood, grows in
the Weft Indies, and gives cloth a violet colour. It is.,
however, chiefly ufed as a bafis for fome other'colours.
Empetrum nigrum, black-^berried heath, crow or crake-
berries, grows on high grounds. The berries, boiled
with alum, are ufed as a purple dye.
GREEN.
Senecio jacobaca, or common raywort, grows in .pa¬
fture-grounds, <bc. The whole plant is ufed, before k
begms to flower, for dying cloths greeen.
Chterophylluni fylveftre, or wild cicely. This plant,
when the tops are taken off, dyes cloth a beautiful green.
Iris germanica, grows in the fouthern parts of Europe.
The expreffed juice of the corolla gives a green dye.
B L A C K.
Lycopus europasus, or water horehound, grows in
marflry places. The juice of this plant gives a black
dye of fuch a fixed nature, that it cannot be wafhed out.
A'dtaea fpicata, herb-chriftopher, or barberries, grows
among brufliwood. The juice of the berries, when
boiled with alum, affords a fine black ink.
Genipa aniericana, is an American tree. The unripe
berries tinge cloths with a deep black. The natives dye
their mouth with thefe berries, to give them a terrible
afpedt to the enemy. It remains fixed for many days.
Quercus, Or oak-tree. The capfulae of the Oak, on ac¬
count of their great ftipticity, are ufed for fixing and im¬
proving the mineral black. They are ufed both by dyers
and curriers.
This fhort iketch of the utility of botany wdth regard
to Food, Medicine, and the Arts, will be fufficient to fug-
geft the many advantages that may be expedkd from the
cultivation of it. The objedls prefented by the fcience
are curious, refpedtable, and ufeful. The natural hiftory
of plants is not even confined to the above important ar¬
ticles. It is ftridfly connefted with agriculture and gar¬
dening. The ftrudfure of vegetables, the foils that natu¬
rally produce particular kinds, things that promote or retard
their growth, are effential parts of their natural hiftory.
Hence a fchool of botany, efpecialiy when fufficient at¬
tention is paid to the ufeful part of the fcience, merits
the higheft encouragement from the public, and ought
to be attended by farmers, landed gentlemen, gardeners,
<bc. as well as by phyficians and philofophers.
SECT
’•
■
Plate lAW
B O
TAN?.
*35
SEC T. II. Of the Method of reducing Plants to Classes, Orders, Ge¬
nera, and Species; and of invejVgating their generic and specific names by
certain marks or characters.
/'E obferved in the former feftio-n, that in the pro-
grefs of this -part of botany many different me¬
thods'-had been followed by different authors. Csefalpi-
nus, R iv, Bauhinus, Van Royan, Ricinus, Tournefoft,
Linnaeus, Sauvages, have each adopted a peculiar me¬
thod of charafterizing and dafling plants. It would be
•foolifh to diftraft the attention of the reader by an ex¬
planation of all thefe methods. We fhall therefore pro¬
ceed to explain that of Linnaeus, which is perhaps the
•only one now taught in Europe.
This method of reducing plants to claffes, genera,
■and fpecies, is founded upon the fuppofition that vege¬
tables propagate the ir fpecies in a manner fimilar to that of
animals. Linnaeus endeavours to fopport this hypothefis
by the many analogies that fubfift between plants and a
nimals, which fhall be more particularly pointed out in
•the third fedlion. It is from this eircumftance that Lin¬
naeus’s fyftem of botany has got the name of the Jexual
•fyjtern. The names of his claffes, orders, <6v. are all
■derived from this theory. He calls the flamina of flowers
the males, or the male parts df geheration; and the pi-
fills fe?vales, Or the female'parts of generation. Plants
whofe flowers contain both male and female parts, are
{'&\&x.o bz hermaphrodites. See. His claffes, orders, and
genera, are all derived from the number, fituation, pro¬
portion, and other circumflances attending thefe parts,
as will appear from the following fcherrre.
S C H E M E of the Sexual System. See Plate LI1I.
Either publicly, i, e. have vifible flowets.
'Monoclinia, males and females in the fame bed:—i. e. The flowers are ail hermaphrodite, having fla-
mina and piftils in the fame flower,
f Diffinitas, the males or ftamina unconnected with‘each other.
f hidifferentjjgmus, the males or Itamina having no determinate proportion betwixt each other as to
length.
1. Monandria, / e. one male or ftamen in a hermaphrodite flower.
2. Diandria,   two males or (lamina.
1 - 3. Ttuanuria,    three males.
4. Tetrandria,   four males.
5. Pentandria-,   five males.
6. Hexandria,   fix males.
7. Heptandria,   feven males.
8. Oct anuria,   eight males.
9. Enneanuria,   nine males.
10. Decanuria,   ten males.
11. Dodecanuria,-  eleven males.
12. Icosanuria, twenty, or more males inferted into the callx, and not into the re¬
ceptacle.
13. Polvanuria,   all above twenty males inferted into the receptacle.
Subordinatio, two of the males or (lamina uniformly (horter than the reft.
14. Diuynamia,   four males, two of them uniformly (horter than the other two,
15. Tetrauynamia, fix males, two of which are uniformly (horter than the reft.
\j4ffinitas, the males or (lamina either connected to each other, or to the piftillum.
16. MonoUelphia, the males or (lamina united into one body by the filaments.
? 7. Diauelphia, the (lamina united into two bodies or bundles by the filaments.
18. Polyaoelpk 1 a, the (lamina united into three or more bundles by the filaments.
19. Syngenesia, the (lamina united in a cylindrical form by the antherse.
20. Gynanoria, the flamina inferted into the pftlillum.
_ Diclinia, males and females in feparate beds ; /. e. plants that have male and female flowers in the fame
fpecies.
21. Monoecia, male and female flowers in the fame plant.
25. Dioecia, male flowers in one plant, and females in another, of the fame fpecies.
23. Polygamia, male, female, and hermaphrodite flowers in the fame fpectes.
Or dandeflinely, i. e. whofe parts of fruClification are invifible.
24. Cryptogamia, the flowers invifible, fo that they cannot be ranked according to the parts
of fructification.
Thefe
636 B O T
Thefe twenty-four clafies comprehend every known ge¬
nus and fpecies. It is an eafy matter to clafs a plant belong¬
ing to any of the firfi: eleven claffes, as they all depend on
the number of (lamina or male parts, without regard to
any other circumftance. The 12th clafs requires more at¬
tention. When the (lamina amount to above 20, a tyro
will be apt to imagine that the plant belongs to the po-
lyandria clafs. In reducing plants of this kind to their
claffes, particular regard muft be had to the infertion of
the (lamina. If they are inferred into the calix or cup,
the plant belongs to the icofandria clafs; if to the recep¬
tacle or bafis of the flower, it belongs to the polyandria.
The 14th clafs is likewife in danger of being con¬
founded with the 4th. In the 4th, the number of (ta-
mins is the fame with that of the 14th. But, in the
14th, two of the (lamina are uniformly much (horter than
the other two; at the fame time each particular (lamen
belonging to the different pairs (lands direftly oppofite to
one another.
The 15th clafs may be miflaken for the fixth, as they
eonfifl: of the fame number of (lamina. But in the 15th,
four of the (lamina are uniformly longer than the other
two ; and thefe two are always oppoiite to each other.
ORDERS.
In the firfi thirteen claffes, the orders, which are infe¬
rior divifions, and lead us a (lep nearer the genus, are
taken from the piflils or female parts, in the fame man¬
ner as the claffes from the flamina: Monogynia, digynia,
trigynia, tetragynia, <bc. i. e. one, two, three, four,
&c. female parts: When the piftils or female parts have
no ftalk or filament like the (lamina, they are numbered
by the (ligmata or tops of the piflils, which in that cafe
adhere to the capfule in the form of fmall protuberances,
as may be obferved in the flowers of the poppy, &c.
The orders of the 14th clafs are derived from a diffe¬
rent fource. The plants belonging to it have their feeds
either inciofed in a capfule, or altogether uncovered.
Hence they naturally admit of a divifion into the follow¬
ing orders, viz. gymnofpermia, comprehending fuch as
have naked feeds ; and angiofpermia, which comprehends
fuch as have their feeds covered, or inciofed in a capfule.
The ijth clafs is divided into two orders, viz. the
Jilicuhfa, or thofc -which have a (hurt filiqua or pod ;
and the filiquofa, or thofe which have a longer filiqua.
The orders of the 16th, 17th, iSth, and 20th claffes,
are taken from the number of (lamina, e. g. monodel-
phia pentandria, decandria, polyandria, &c.
The Syngenesia, or 19th clafs, confifls of plants
whofe flowers are compounded of a great number of fmall
flowers or flofcules inciofed in one common calix. The
orders of this clafs are*
Polygamia a’qualis, or fuch whofe flofcules are all fur-
niihed with (lamina and piftils.
Polygamia fpuria, comprehends thofe which have her¬
maphrodite flofcules in the di(k. and female flofcules in
the margin. This circumftance is made the foundation
of the three following orders. 1. Polygamia fupcrflua,
includes all thofe whofe hermaphrodite flowers in the
ANY.
di(k are furnifhed with ftigmata, and bear feed; and
whofe female flowers in the radius likewife produce
feeds. 2. Polygamia frujlranea, include fuch as have
hermahprodite feed-bearing flofcules in the dilk ; but
whole flofcules in the radius, having no ftigmata, are bar¬
ren. 3. Polygamia nectffaria, is the reverfe of the former:
The hermaphrodite flowers in the dillt want iligmata, and
are barren ; but the female flofcules in the radius are
furnifhed with ftigmata, and produce feeds.
Polygamia fegregata, many flofcules inciofed in one
common calix, and each of the flofcules likewife furnifti-
ed with a perianthium proper to irfelf.
Monogamia, this order confifts only of feven genera,
viz. the ftrumphia, feriphium, corymbium, jafione, lo¬
belia, viola, and impatiens ; none of which have proper¬
ly compound flowers, but are ranked under this clafs
purely from the circumftance of having their (lamina uni¬
ted by the antheras.
The orders of the 2i(l clafs are partly taken from the
number of (lamina, and partly from the names and cha-
radters peculiar to Tome of the other claffes, e. g mo-
noecia triandria, monoecia fyngenefia, moncecia gynandria.
The orders of the 23d are ail taken from clallical
charadlers, e. g. polygamia monoecia, polygam.a oecia,
and polygamia trioecia.
The 24th, or Cryptogamia clafs, is divided into
the four following orders: 1. Filices, comprehending all
plants that bear their feed in the back or edges of the
leaf, and thofe that are called capillary plants. 2. Muf-
ci, which comprehends all the mofs kind. 3. dlgte, in¬
cluding the lichens, fuci, and many others whofe parts
of frudlification are either altogether invifible or exceed¬
ingly obfeure. 4. Fungi, comprehending all the mufn-
room tribe.
Having thus explained the method of reducing plants
to their claffes and orders, we (hall proceed to inform
the young botanift how to inveftigate the genus. This
depends' upon minuter diftindlions, and requires more at¬
tention. But it is impoflible to inveftigate the genera,
without being previoufly acquainted with a confider-
able number of terms. All the terms neceflary for
this purpofe belong to the parts of fru<5lifkation. To
attempt to give an idea by words of the parts to which
particular terms are applied, would not only be difficult,
but, in a great meafure, ufelefs, efpecially to fuch as
are totally ignorant of botany. We (hall therefore give
a lift of the terms themfelves, with proper references to
the figures of the things fignified by them, which will
both be (hotter, and more intelligible than the mod ac¬
curate defeription that language is capable of.
Lift of Terms belonging to the Flowers and Parts
of Frunification. See Plate LIV.
Fig. 1. Spatba, a- fpecies of calix opening longitudi¬
nally when the flower breaks through it.
2. Spadix, a fpecies of receptacle peculiar to palm-trees,
which confilts of fruit-bearing branches included in a
fpatha.
3.
Plate IjTXT
B O T
3. a, Gluma, another fpecies of calix, belonging chief¬
ly to graffes and corns, and confifts of different valves ;
b, arijia, or awn.
4. a a, Umbella univerfalis, comprehends the whole
flowers, &c. arifing from a common centre, and re-
fembling a large fan. b, Umbella partialis, or a
fmaller parcel of the flowers, fyc. refembling a fmall
fan. c c, Irivalucrurn univerfale, a fpecies of calix
in which the whole flowers were inclofed before their
blowing, d d, Involucrum partiale, a leffer calix,
which includes a fmaller bundle of flowers, and which,
before their blowing, is inclofed in the involucrum u-
niverfale. Examples of thefe are found in the hem¬
lock, carrot, 6r.
5. c, Ca'yptra; b, operculum; a, capitulum. Thefe
terms are peculiar to mofles.
6. Amentum, a fpecies of calix, e. g, in the willow,
birch-tree, &c.
7. Strobilus, a pericarpium or capfule compofed of an
amentum, an example of which occurs in the mag¬
nolia.
8. Fungi, a, Pileus; b, volva ; c, Jlipss. Thefe two
are mollly applied to the parts of mufhrooms.
9. a, Receptaculum commune nudum, the common re¬
ceptacle, or bafe of the flower, when the flamina, pi-
ftil, capfule, fac. are taken off.
10. Receptaculum commune paleis imbricatum, or com¬
mon receptacle imbricated or tiled with palese, or
membranaceous lamellae,
11. Corolla monopetala. a. Tubus', b, limbus', i. e.
a, the tube; b, the edge or margin of a monopeta-
lous corolla. The corolla fignifies the flower-leaf,
when it confifls but of one, and the whole flower-
leaves, when it confifls of more.
12- Is a flower laid in a proper pofition for fhewing its
different parts, a, Gennen, which includes the feeds
and capfule in which they are inclofed ; b, Jlylus,
which is a continuation of the germen ; c, Jligma, or
top of the ftylus ; d d d d d d, filamenta, or threads ;
e e e e e, anthera. The filamenta and antherae,
confidered as a whole, are called Jlamina; and the
germen, flylus, and fligma, as a whole, are called pi-
Jlilluin. f f f f f, Petala, or flower-leaves.
13. a, The ungues, or claws; b, the lamina, or plates
of a. polypetalous corolla, or corolla confifling of feve-
ral flower-leaves.
14. a, Neftarium campanulatum in narciffa, or bell-
fhaped neffarium of the narciffus. Nedtarium is ap¬
plied to every glandular part of a flower which fecerns
a fweet juice. Their flrudture is very different in
different plants.
15. Ne ft aria cornuta in aconita, horned nedlaria of the
monkfhood.
16. Horned neftarium in the calix of the tropoeolus.
17. a a a a, Neftariurn in parnajfia', the nedlaria of
the pnrnaflia grafs are fix in number, each of which
have thirteen fljdi, with round buttons on their tops.
18. a, Perianthium, that fpecies of calix which is con¬
tiguous to the frudhification ; b, germen-, c, Jlylus ;
d, JUgma; e e, filament a ; f f, anther# dehifcentes,
or anther* fhedding the pollen or duff; g, anthera
Vol. I. No. 28. 3
A N Y. 631
Fig.
Integra, i. e. the appearance of the anthcra before it
fheds the pollen.
19. a, The filament, and b, the anthera, feparated
from the flower.
20. a, One grain of the pollen magnified by a micro-
fcope ; b, halitus elajlicus, i. e. an el a flic aura fup-
pofed to be neceffary for impregnating the feeds.
21. a, Germen; b, Jlylus ; cc, Jligma.
22. Folliculus, i. e. a pericarpiura confifHrjg only of one
valve, opening longitudinally, and in which the feeds
do not adhefe to the future, but are inclofed in a par¬
ticular receptacle a.
23. Legumen, is a double-waived pericarpium, having
the feeds fixed only to one of the futures a a. °
24. Siliqua, is a double-valved pericarpium with the feeds
fixed to both futures or margins a b.
25. Pomum, a pericarpium without any valve, but made
up of a pulpy fubflance, and containing a capfule in
which the feeds are inclofed, as in the apple, tyc.
a, The pericarpium ; b, the capfule. or feed-cafe.
26. a, Drupa, or a pericarpium containing a nut or
flone, and having no valve, e.g. plumbs, eirc. b, the
nucleus, or flone.
27. Bacca, or berry, is a pericarpium containing naked
feeds difperfed through the pulpy part.
28. Capfula apice dehifcens, a capfule opening at the
top to allow the feeds to fall out.
29. Four capfules included in a common pericarpium.
a a, The valves; b b, the diffepimentum, or partition
which feparates the different feed-capfules from one
another; c, columella, or central column by which
the capfules are connefted.
30. A capfule cut open longitudinally, to fnow the re¬
ceptacle of the feeds.
31. Pappus, a kind of corona or crown which is either
hairy or penniform, and connedted to the feeds of
feme plants, by means of which they are blown about
by the wind, a. Pappus pilofus, or pappus refem¬
bling a hair ; b, pappus plumofis, or feathered pappus ;
c, femen ; d, Jlipes. The dandelion, and many plants
of the fyngenefia clafs, afford examples of thefe parts.
Terms belonging to the Pe dune ulus or Foot-
Jlalks of Flowers.
32. Corymbus, i. e. flov/ers upon alternate pedunculi and
foot-flalks, elevated proportionally above each other.
33. Racernus, a pedunculus or foot-ftalk furnifhed with
lateral branches.
34. Spica, alternate feflile flowers [i. e. flowers with¬
out any particular foot-flalk, but inferted direflly in¬
to one common to the whole], upon a common foot-
flalk, as in the feirpus.
35. Vertici/lus.. This term is applied to fuch plants as
have clufters of flowers at different di(lances furround¬
ing the caulis or flem ; as in feveral fpecies of mint.
36. Panicula, i. e. flowers placed fparlely upon feparate
foot-flalks, as ip oats, <bc.
When thefe terms are underflood, the genus may be
eafily invefligated. But in order flill further to afliflthe
young botanifl, we fhall give a fyflematic defeription of
a'few common plants belonging to different claffes.
t ,7 Y DIAN-
638 B O T
DIANDRIA M O N ,0 G Y N I A.
Veronica, or Speedwell.
The Calix is a perianthium (18), divided into four
parts or fegments, and perfiftent (i. e. does not fall off
till the feeds are ripe); the fegments are fharp and lance-
fhaped.
The Corolla (fi) confifts of one rotated petal;
The tubus (n) is about the fame length with the calix;
the limbus (u) is plane, and divided in four oval feg¬
ments, the loweft of which is narrower than the reft,
and the one immediately oppofite broader.
The Stamina (12) are two, narrower below, and
inclined upwards; the antherae (12) are oblong.
The Pistillum (12) has acompreffed germen (12),
a filiform or thread-like ftylus (12), about the fame length
with the ftamina, and a little declined to one fide: The
ftigma (12) is fimple.
ThePERiCARPiuM (12) is a heart-fhapedcapfule, com-
prefied at the top, and having two cells or partitions,
and four valves.
The Seeds are roundifii and numerous.
I C O S A N D R I A P O L Y G A M I A.
Fragaria, or Strawberry.
The Calix is a perianthium, confifting of one plain
leaf, divided into ten fegments,. each alternately nar¬
rower.
The. Corolla has five roundilh open petals inferted
into the calix.
The Stamina are twenty in number, Tubulated or
tapering, Ihorter than the corolla, and inferted into the
calix. The antherae are lunulated,. or lhaped like a
crefcent.
The Pistillum confifts of many fmall germina, col¬
lected into a little head or knob. The ftyli are fimple,
and inferted into the fides of their refpedtive germina.
The ftigmata are fimple.
The Psricarpium is wanting in this plant. But
the common receptacle of the feeds, which fupplies the
place of a pericarpium, is a roundilh oval berry, plain at
the bafe, pretty large, foft, pulpy, coloured, and de¬
ciduous, i. e. falls off before the feeds be ripe.
The Seeds are fmall, pointed, very numerous, and
difperfed through the fuperficial part of the receptacle.
T>IDYNAMIA AN GIOSPER.MI A.
Digitalis, or Fox-glove.
The Calix is a perianthium,. divided into four deep
cut fegments, which are roundilh, . ftiarp at the top, per¬
fiftent, and the higheft one is narrower than the reft.
The Corolla confifts of one bell-lhaped petal ; the
• tubus is large, open, ventricofe or bellied at the back-
fide ; the bafe is cylindrical and narrow : The limbus is
fmall, and divided into four fegments; the fuperior feg-
aaent is more open and mote emarginated than the reft.
ANY.
The Stamina are four, Tubulated (44), inferted into
the bafe of the corolla, and inclined to the fame fide ; two
of them are longer than the other two: The antheras are
divided into two parts, and pointed at the top.
The Pistillum confifts of a germen (harp at the top,
a fimple ftylus fituate like the ftamina, and an acute
ftigma.
The Pericarpium has an oval capfule, of the fame
length with the calix, lharp at the top, having two cells,
and two valves which burft open at both fides.
The Seeds are many and fmall.
TETRADYNAMIA SILIQJJOSA.
Sinapis, or Mustard.
The Calix is a perianthium confifting of four open or
fpreading leaves ; the leaves are linear (43)', concave, fur¬
rowed, difpofedin the form of a crofs, and deciduous
The Corolla confifts of four cruciform petals: The
petals are roundilh, plain, open, entire, or not emar¬
ginated, with ere£t linear ungues (13) fcarceiy fo long as
the calix.
The Nectaria (14, 6t.), orglanduLs mflariferx,
are four, of an oval figure, one of which is fituate on each
fide betwixt the Ihort ftamina and ftylus, and likewife one
on each fide between the long ftamina and the calix.
The Stamina have fix fubulated, ereft filaments, two
of which are of the fame length with the calix, and al¬
ways oppofite to each other, and the other four are uni¬
formly longer: The ant her a are eredl, and lharp at
the top.
The Pistillum has a cylindrical germen; the ftylus
is of the fame length with ttie germen, and the fame
height with the ftamina; the ftigma is entire, with a little
knob or button.
The Pericarpium is an oblong, fcabrous, double-
celled, two-valved pod, gibbous, and full of little pro¬
tuberances on the under parts : The diflepimentum (29)
is large, compreffed, and often twice the length of the
valves.
The Seeds are many and round.
MONODELPHIA POLYANDRIA.
Mal.va, or Common Mallow.
The Calix is a double perianthium : The exterior
one confifts of three lanceolated, loofe, perfiftent leaves ;
the interior has but one large, broad, perfiftent leaf, di¬
vided into five fegments.
The Co roll a has five plain leaves, united at the bafe»
heart-lhaped, and premorfe (54);
The Stamina confift of numerous filaments, united,
into a cylindrical form below,. Joofe above, and inferted'
into the corolla: The antlierse are kidney-lhaped.
The Pistillum has an orbicular germen, a cylin¬
drical, Ihort ftylus, and many briftly ftigmata of an equal,
length with the ftylus.
The Pericarpium confifts of feveral diftindt capfules
joined by an articulation, refembling a depreffed globe,
and'
EOT
and opening from within when ripe: The receptacolum
is a kind of column binding the capfulss together.
The Seeds are folitary, and kidney-fhaped.
SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA AEOUALIS.
Leontodon, or Dahdei.ion.
The common Calix is oblong, and imbricated: The
interior fcales are linear, parallel, o-jual", and open at
the top; the exterior fcales are fewer in number, and
frequently reflected at the bafe.
The compoundC.OKOI.L.a. is uniform and imbricated.
The fmall hermaphrodite corolla are very numerous
and equal.
The corolla proper to each fiofcule confifts of one ligu-
lated (/. e. plain and expanded outwards), linear, trun¬
cated (i. e. terminated by a tranfverfe line), and five-
teethed petal.
The Stamina confift of five very fmall capillary- fila¬
ments : The anthers are conne&ed together, and form a
cylindrical tube.
The GERMENof the piJliUum isfituate below the pro¬
per corolla. The llylus is fiiiforme, and nearly of the
fame length with the corolla: The ftigmata are two, and
turned back in a fpiral form.
This plant has no pericarpium.
The Seeds are folitary, oblopg, rough, and terminated
by a long pappous llipes (31).
The receptacle, or common bafe of the flofcules (9),
is naked, and full of fmall hollow points.
GYNANDRIA PEN TAN Dili A.
Passiflora, or Passion-flower.
The Calix is a perianthium confiding of five plain,
coloured leaves, fimilar to tbofe of the corolla.
TheCoROLLA confids of five plain obtole femi-lan-
ceolated leaves, of- the fame magnitude and figure with
thofe of the calix.
The neftariuin is a triple corona, the 'exterior of
which is longed, furrounding the dylus within the petals,
and draitened above.
The Stamina are five, fubulated, open, and conneided
to the dylus at the bafe of the germen : The antherae are
oblong, obtufe, and incumbent.
The Pi stillum eonfidsof an erecTcylindrical dylus,
upon the top of which an oval germen is placed : The
ftyli are three, thicker, and wider above: The digmata
are roundilh knobs.
The Pericardium is a flefhy, luboval, one-celled
berry, reding upon the dylus.
The Seeds are numerous, oval, and each of them in-
clofed in a fmall membramei
MONOECIA TETRANDRTA.
Urtica, or Common Nettle.
The Calix of the male flowers is a four-leaved peti-
aadiium; the leaves are roundifli, concave, and obtufe.
ANY. 639
TheCoROLLA has no petals; but there is a fmall ur-
ceolated (/. e. an inflated flein, gibbous on each fide) nefla-
rium in the centre of the flower.
The Stamina confidsof four fubulated open filaments,
of an equal length with the calix, and one of them is
placed between each leaf of the calix: The anthera have
no cells.
The Calix of the female flowers is a double-valved,
oval, concave, ere<5t, perfident perianthium.
The Corolla is wanting.
The Pi stillum has an oval germen, no dylus, and a
downy digma.
They have no pericarpium.
The Seed is Angle, oval* fliining, and a little com-
prefled.
Thefe examples will not only illudrate mod of the ge¬
neric terms, but will likewife fix them in the mind more
fuccefsfully than any fornud explanation. A careful pe
rufal of them will enable any perfon to underhand the
deferiptions in the Genera Plantarum of Linnaeus, al¬
though he diould not be much acquainted with the Latin
language.
But the young botanid, after advancing this far, mud
dill be conduced a dep. further. Though he may be able
to reduce plants to their claflfes, orders, and genera, he
is hitherto totally ignorant of the fpecific. charaders
Before he be able to invedigate the fpecies, he mud again
fubmit to learn a confiderable nnmber of terms neceffary
for that purpofe.
Lifi of Terms neceffary for inveftigating the Spe¬
cies of Plants.’
Simple Leaves.
38. Suhrotundum, roundidv.
39. fltaped like an egg.
40. Ovale, oval or elliptical.
41. Oblongum, oblong.
42. Lanceolatum, in the form of a dart, or tapering.on
each fide to a point.
43. Lineare, like a line, or of the fame breadth and
thicknefs throughout.
44. Subulatum,. tapering to a point, like an awl.
45. Reniforme, fhaped like a kidney.
46. Cordatum, like a heart.
47. Lunulatum, refembling a crefcent or half-moon.
48. Triangulare, three-cornered.
49. Sagittatum, like an arrow.
50. Cordate fagittatum, refembling.both a heart and an
arrow.
jx. Hof at urn, like a fpear or lance.
52. Fijfum, cut in at the top.
53. Triholum, confiding of three (yy) lobes.
54. Pnemorfunt, i. e. as' if a piece were bit out of rhe
fore-part of the leaf.
55. Lobatum, confiding of lobes, or fegments cut to the
middle of the leaf, and convex at the edges.
j6. ^jiinangularc, confiding of five angles.
57. Erofuin,
B O T A
N Y.
Fig.
57. Erefuni, as ir eroded or eat irregularly by fome cor-
rofive fubftance.
58. Palmdtum, refembling a hand.
<59, Pinnatum, divided into pieces refembling fins.
60. Lachiiaium, with many cuts or indentures in the
margin.
61. Simiat'm, having wide finufes or hollows in the
margin.
62. Dentato-Jinuatum, having finufes and divifions re¬
fembling teeth.
63. Retrerfum Jinuatum, hollowed and bent backwards.
64. Partitum, when the divifions or fegments reach near
the bafe of the leaf.
65. Repandum, a waving but undivided margin.
66. Dentatum, teethed, i. e. when the tops of the feg¬
ments are remote from each other.
67. Sdrraium, when the fegments uniformly incline to
the extremity.
68. Duplicato-ferratum, doubly ferrated, i. e. when the
lefler fegments incline to the extremities of the
larger ones.
69. Duplicato-crenatum, doubly crenated, (74)
70. Cartilagincum, when the margin of the leaf has a
cartilaginous or griflly-texture.
71. Acute-crendtum, (harp fegments haying no deter¬
minate inclination to either extremity.
72. Obtufs-crenatum, the fame with the above, only the
fegments are blunt.
73. Plicatum, plaited, or confiding of regular folds.
74. Crendtum, fegments having no inclination to either
extremity.
75. Crifpum, when the margin is larger than the difc,
and formed into a kind of waves.
76. Obtufum, blunt at the top.
77. Acutum, lharp, or pointed.
78. Acuviinatum, when the leaf tapers to a firarp point
at the top.
79. Obtufum acuniine, having a fhort fubulated point.
80. Emarginatum acute, having fharp divifions at the
top of the leaf.
81. Unciforme marginatum, having wedge-fhaped divi¬
fions at the top.
82. Retufurn, having blunt finufes.
83. Pilofum, covered with long diftindl hairs.
84. Tomentofum, interwoven with foft hairs, and often
of a white colour.
85;. Hifpidum, having brittle rough bridles difFufely fcat-
tered upon the difc of the leaf.
86. Ciliatum, having parallel bridles round the margin.
87. Rugofum, full of rugae or wrinkles.
38. Veaofum, having veins or nerves confiding of many
ramifications.
89. Nervofum, when the veins or nerves are extended
from the bafe to the top without any branches.
90. Papillnfum, covered with veficles, bladders, or hol¬
low points.
91. Linguiforms, like a tongue, /. e. flediy, linear, ob-
tufe, convex below, and having frequently a car¬
tilaginous margin.
92. Acinaciforme, refembling a kernel;—comprefled,
fleflty, having one edge narrow and convex, and
the other thicker and more draight.
93. Dolabriferme, refembling an ax ;—comprelfed,
roundifli, gibbous on the outfide, with a ftiarp
edge, which is a little blunter below.
94. Deltoides, an irregular rhomboidal figure. See
the leaf of the black poplar.
95. Triquetrum, having three plain fides.
96. Canaliculalum, having a deep longitudinal furrow.
97. Sulcatum, having feveral deep furrows.
98. Teres, cylindrical, or like a cylinder.
99. Binatum, when a dimple petiolus has two leaves
connedted to its apex.
.100. Ternatum foliis feffilibus, three feffile leaves (/. e.
having no petioli) connedted to one common
petiolus.
101. Ternatam foliolis petiolatis, three leaves upon a
common petiolus, each having at the fame time
a feparate petiolus.
102. Digitatum, or refembling fingers, i. e. when a
dimple petiolus has two, three, four, or more
leaves connedted to its apex.
103. Pedatum, a bilid or forked petiolus, having fmall
leaves connedted to its interior fide.
104. P'nmatum cum impart-, fmall leaves connedted to
the fides of a Ample petiolus, terminated by an
odd leaf.
105. Pinnatum abruptum, neither terminated by an odd
leaf nor a cirrhus.
106.  alternatum, when the fmall leaves rife
higher and higher alternately upon the petiolus.
107.  interrupts, when the pinnated leaves are
alternately larger and fmaller.
108.  cirrhofu,m, when the common petiolus
ends in a cirrhus.
109.  conjugatum, when the common petiolus
has only two leaves connedted.
no.   decurftve, when the fmall leaves run
along the petiolus.
in. articulate, when the common petiolus
is jointed.
112. Lyratum, like a harp, /. <?. when the leaf is tranf-
verfely divided into fegments, the fuperior of
which are larger than the inferior, and the in¬
ferior ones are more diftant from each other.
113. Bilernatum, or duplicato-ternatum, when the com-.
mon petiolus has three ternated (100) leaves
fixed to it. The epimedium is an example of
this.
114. Bipinnatum, or duplicato-pinnatum, when the com¬
mon petiolus gives off pinnated (104) petioli
from its fides.
115. Triternatum, or triplicato-ternatum, when the
common petiolus fends off from its fides three
biternated (113) leaves.
116. Tripinnatum fine impari, when the common pe¬
tiolus has three or more bipinnated (114) leaves
fixed to its fides, not terminated by a Angle leaf.
117.  cum impari, the fame with the former,
only terminated by a fingle leaf.
Terms
BOX
Terms resetting the Determination, of Leaves.
Fig.
xi8. Inflexum, when the.leaves bend or arch upwards
upon the caulis or ftem.
119. Ereiium, when the leaves make a very acute angle
with the caulis.
120. Patens. This term is applied to Leaves which make
a more obtufe angle with the caulis than the
former.
121. Horizontale, when the leaves Hand at right angles
with the caulis.
122. Reclinatum, or reflexuni, when the leaf bends
down, fo that the apex is lower than the bafe.
1,23. Revolutum, when both lidcs of the leaf are rolled'
backwards in a fpiral form.
124. Seminale, feed-leaves, or diffimilar leaves. They
are the lobes of the feed, which in many plants
arife entirely outof the ground,, and. are always
the firft that appear above the furface. See
Agriculture, p. 41.
125. Caul in inn, fuch as rife immediately from the cau¬
lis or If era.
126. Ranreum, fuch as arife front a branch of the caulis.
127. Florale, fuch as arife from the fame place with
the flower.
128. Peltatum, when the petiolus is inferred, not into
the edge or bafe, but into the dilk- of the leaf.
129. Petiolatum,. when the petiolus is inferted into the
margin of the bafe.
130. Sefile, when the leaf has no petiolus, but is im¬
mediately connedled to the caulis.
131. Decurrtns, when the bafe of a feflile (130) leaf is
extended downwards along the caulis ; as in the
verbefina, carduus, &c.. u.
132. Amplexicanle, when the bafe of the leaf embraces
the caulis on all fides.
133. Perfoliatum, when the bafe of the leaf entirely
furrounds the caulis, fo that the caulis feeras to
perforate the leaf.
134. Coma turn, when the oppofite leaves run into one
another, and- furround the caulis, as in the eu-
patorium.
1?,$. Vagina ns, when the bafe of the leaf forms a cy¬
lindrical tube inverting the caulis.
136. Articulatum, in the form of joints, i. e. when one
leaf arifes from the apex of another.
137. Si elicit a, radiated like a ftar, e. when more
than two leaves furround: a verticillated (35)
caulis.
138. Sluaterna, quina, fena, &c. are fpecies of ftellated
(137) leaves, when there are four, five, or fix,
be. leaves furrounding the caulis.
139. Oppoftta, when the leaves of the caulis are exaflly
oppofite to one another.
140. Alterna, when the leaves rife alternately higher
upon the caulis.
X41. Acerofa, linear, pernftent leaves, as in the p'nus
or. fir-tree, be. .
VaOL. I. . NO. 2 7, - 3
ANY. 641
Fig.
142. Imbricata, when the leaves reft upon one another
like tiles on a roof.
143 . Fafciculata, when many leaves rife from the fame
point, as in the larynx.
144. Frons. This term is applied'to a fpecies of trunk,
which confifts of branches and leaves, and fome-
times the fruftilication, all united together: It is
peculiar to the Alices, or ferns, and the palmae.
145. Spathulatum folium, is a roundilh leaf, with a nar¬
row linear bafe.
146. Parabolicum folium, like a parabola, i. e. having
its longitudinal diameter longer than the tranf-
verfe, and growing narrower from the bafe till
it terminates in an oval figure.
Terms relatingto theCaules or Jiems. Plate LVII.
147. Squamofus cuhnus. The culmus is a trunk or ftem
peculiar to grafles; and fquamofus culmus is a
fcaly culmus.
148. Rspsns caulis. The caulis or ftem is a fpecies of
trunk peculiar to herbaceous plants, and fup-
ports the leaves or parts of fruftification : Re¬
pens caulis is a ftem which gives outfmall roots
on every fide, as it runs along the furface of the
ground, or upon another plant.
149. Scapus, is a fpecies of trunk which fupports the
parts of fruiftification, but has no leaves.
150. Articulatus culmus, a culmus (147) with many
joints.
151. Volubilis caulis, a caulis (148) which runs in a>
fpiral form upon the trunk or branch of another,
plant, be.
152. Dichotomus caulis; a caulis (145) uniformly di¬
viding into branches.
153. Bracbiatits caulis, a caulis having oppofite decuf-
fating branches^ refembling arms.
Terms relating- to the Fulcra- or fupports <■ of
Leaves.
154. a, Cirrhus, a fpiral thread which, conneffs the;
plant to any other body, b, Sttpulee, or little
feales at the bafe of ti e petiolus or pedunculus.
c, Glanduta concavce, fmall hbllow glands for
fecreting a liquor.
jyj. a, ClanduLe pedicellata., fmall glands, each fup-
ported by a pedunculus.
156. a, Braftea, or flower-leaf, which differs in ftiape
from she other leaves of the plant b.
157. a, Spina fmplex, a Ample thorn or prickle, b,
Spina triplex, or three prickles proceeding from ;
ne. Spina is applied to fuch thorns as are pro¬
truded from the wood of the plant.
158. Aculeus fmplex. Aculeus is.a prickle not pro¬
truded from the wood, but only fixed to the
bark. It is faid to be fimplet when it rifes
Angle.
159. Aculeus triplex, a triple aculeus (158).'
160. Oppcfta folia, or oppofite leaves, a. The axilla
or arm-pit.
7 Z. Ter ms j
t
6^t
B
Terms relating to Roots.
N
Y.
Fig.
l6x. Bulbus fqucnnofus, when the root is compofed of
imbricated or tiled fcales or plates, as in the lily-
root.
162. Bulbus folidus, confiding of a folid fubftance.
163. Bulbus tunicatus, confiding of coats lying above
one another, as in the onion.
164. Tuberofa radix, a root confiding of a great many
little knots, as in the filipendula.
l6j. Fujifbrmis radix, like a fpindle, /. e. oblong,
thick, and tapering to a point below, as in the
root of the carrot.
166. Ramofa radix, having many lateral branches.
167. Repens radix, a root which creeps horizontally,
and fends off every where fmaller roots at dif¬
ferent didances.
These are the principal terms neceffary for under-
danding Linnaeus’s defcription of the fpecific charadters
of plants.—To make the reader acquainted with the
manner in which thefe terms are ufed, we diall give a
few examples.
Clafs II. D I A N D R I A.
Order, M O N O G Y N I A.
Genus, Veronica, or Speedwell.
Species, Veronica arvenjh, has folitary flowers,
cut, feflile (130), and cordated (46)
leaves.
Veronica agrejlis, has folitary flowers, cut,
cordated (46), and petiolated (129)
leaves.
Clafs XVI. MONODELPHIA.
Order, POLYGYNIA.
Genus, Malva, or Mallow.
Species, Malva fpicata, has tomentofe (84), cre-
nated (74), and cordated (46) leaves,
and oblong hairy fpicae (34).
Malva fylveflris, has an eredt (119) her¬
baceous caulis (148), with acute (74),
feven-lobed ($0) leaves, and hairy pe-
dunculi and petioli (129).
Clafs XIX. SYNGENESIA.
Order, POLYGAMIA AIQUALIS.
Genus, Carduus, or Thistle.
Species, Carduus helenwides, or melancholy thi-
JUe, has lanceolated (42), teethed
(66), amplexicaule (132) leaves, with
unequal ciliated (86) fmallfpines( 158).
Clafs XXIV. CRYPTOGAMIA.
Order, F I L I C E S.
Genus, Asplenium, or Maidenhair.
Species, Afplenium trichomanes, has a pinnated
(104) frons (144); the pinnae (104)
areroundilh (38) and crenated (74).
To thefe examples we (hall add a complete defcriptioit
of a plant reduced to its clafs, order, genus, and fpecies,
with figures of all the parts neceffary for that purpofe.
Rheum Palmatum, or True Rhubarb. See
Plate LVIII.
The flower of this plant has no Calix.
The Corolla dd, confifts of one petal, narrower at
the bafe, not perforated, and divided in the margin
into fix obtufe fegments, one lefs and one larger al¬
ternately ; the petal is marcefcent, i. e. decays, but
does not fall off till the feeds be ripe.
The Stamina e e, confift of nine capillary filaments in-
ferted into the corolla, and about the fame length with
it. antheree are didymous, (i. e. appear to be
double), oblong, and obtufe.
The Pistillum/, has a (hort three-fided germen. It
can hardly be faid to have any ftyli; but has three re-
fle&ed, plumofe (ligmata.
The Pericarpium is wanting.
Each flower contains but one large, three-fided, acute
feed g, with a membranaceous edge.
The number of (lamina determines this plant to belong
to the Enneandria clafs; and the number of Stig¬
mata fixes its order to be Trigynia. The other
parts of the above defcription clearly demonftrate the
genus to be the Rheum or Rubarb, and fufficiently di-
(tinguifli it from the Laurus, Tinus, Caffyta, and Bu*
tomus, the only other genera belonging to this clafs.
The Specific mark is taken from the leaves, which
are palmated (58), and (harp and tapering at the
points. There are but five fpecies of Rheum, none of
whofe leaves are palmated, except the fpecies now de-
fcribed.
But though the above defcription be fufficient for as¬
certaining the genus and fpecies of this valuable plant,
there are other reafons for giving a complete botanical
defcription of the whole parts of it. The true rhubarb,
though of the mod extenfive ufe in medicine, was never
known in this country till the year 1762, when Dr
Mounfey brought fome feeds from Ruflia, and gave them
to Dr Hope profeffor of medicine and botany in Edin¬
burgh. Dr Hope fowed them in the botanical garden,
and colledted about 30 feeds from one of the plants,
which rofe to eight feet in height. This plant is now
propagating in the botanic garden, in the garden of Sir
Alexander Dick, and many other gardens in Scotland.
The root is found, by repeated trials, to be equally
powerful in its operation as the bed foreign rhubarb;
and we have the greated reafon to hope, that in a (hort
time this plant will be fo univerfally cultivated as to pre¬
vent the future importation of it. The fird botanic de¬
fcription we have of the true rhubarb was publilhed by
Dr Hope in the philofophical tranfaftions for the year
1765 * ; which we (hall tranflate into Englifli.
* Vid. Phil. Tranf. for the year 1765.
u
B O T
The Root a, is of the branchy kind, and perennial.
The Leaves of (which b in the plate is an outline) are a-
bout fixteen in number, grow near the root, about two
feet long, and are furniihed with petioli or foot-ftalks.
—The petioli are about a foot long, cylindrical, plane
above, fmooth, of a green colour, but in fome places
interfperfed with fmali, narrow, purple fpots; at the
bafe of the leaf, the petiolus terminates in three or
. five large nerves or ribs, which are prominent above;
the leaves are ovated, deep cut, with {harp lacinia or
fcgments ; the fuperior part of the bafe is green, the
inferior of a whitifli green, and both are a little rough.
The Caulis or Stem is erefi:, fomewhat cylindrical,
fifiulous or hollow within, jointed, fheathed, rough,
ftriated, about eight feet high, and about two inches
over near the bafe. It has fourteen joints, each of
which, from the bafe to the ninth joint, is furnilhed
with a reflected leaf, placed alternately, gradually di-
roinilhing as they rife higher, and the petiolus forms
a kind of {heath, which embraces the ftem.
The Pedonculi or Foot-stalks of the flowers,
which are numerous, arife from the alae or arm-pits of
the leaves, are almoft ereft, unequal, ftriated, cylin¬
drical, plainifli at the bafe, and out of their fides other
SECT; III. O f t h e S
A S many philofophers and botanifts deny that fuch a
thing as the diftinotion of fexes takes place in vege¬
tables, it will be neceflary to give a narration of the ar¬
guments employed by both parties on this fubjedt. We
{hall begin with the arguments in favour of the fexes.
Linn.®us, like every perfon attached to a parti¬
cular dodrine or theory, is at great pains in tracing
the notion of fexes in plants to the remoteft periods of
antiquity. He informs us, that Empedocles, Anaxago¬
ras, and other ancient philofophers, not only attributed
the diftindion of fexes to plants, but maintained that
they were capable of perceiving pleafure and pain.
Hippocrates and Theophraftus are next introduced as
diftinguiftiing the conyza, the abies, the filix, &c. into
male and female. The latter of thefe writers affirms,
that the fruit of the female palni will not germinate un-
lefs the pollen of the male be {baked over the fpatha of
the female, previous to the ripening of the feed.
Diofcorides takes notice of a male and female mandra-
gora, mercurialis, ciftus, 6r.
Pliny does not confine his views of fex to animals, but
exclaims, that every thing this earth produces is charac¬
terized by the diftindion of fex.
From the days of Pliny to thofe of Caefalpinus, who
lived in the 16th century, the analogy between the vege¬
table and animal feems to have been entirely negleded.
Caefalpinus tells us, that the males of the oxycedrus,
taxus, mcrcurialis, urtica, and cannabis, are barren;
and that the females of thefe plants only bear fruit.
After Caefalpinus, we find Dr Grew and Sir Thomas
Millington engaged in a converfation concerning the uti-
A N Y. 643
foot-ftalks arife, to be diftributed in the fame manner.
c, is a flowering branch feparated from the ftem.
The Taste, Odour, and CoLoya of the Root are
precifely the fame with thofe of the foreign rhubarb.
The Taste of the Flowers is aftringent, herbaceous
and fubacid; they have no fenfible fmell.
The Paste of the Leaves is bitterifh, aftringent, and
herbaceous; the tafte of the Ribs or Nerves is
acid, bitterifli, and very ungrateful;—the tafte of the
Stem is a little four.
We have now pretty fully explained the method of
reducing plants to clafles, orders, genera, and fpecies,
according to the fexual fyftem of Linnseus. The man¬
ner in which this explanation has been executed was fug-
gefted by the difficulties which naturally occur to a per¬
fon unacquainted both with the fubjeft and the fyftem.
Although this manner has not, fo far as we know, been
hitherto attempted, we hope it will not be the lefs accep¬
table to the public, efpecially as it is likely to be more
ufeful to the botanical ftudent.
It only now remains to make the reader more fully ac¬
quainted with the origin and nature of the fexual fyftem.
EXES of PLANTS.
lity of the ftamina and ftyli of plants. The refult of
this converfation was the mutual agreement of thefe two
eminent naturalifts, that the ftamina and ftyli of vege¬
tables were analogous to the organs of generation in ani¬
mals, and that they were adapted by nature to anfwer
the fame purpofes. Dr Grew, in his anatomy of plants,
after enumerating the analogies between plants and ani¬
mals, concludes, that the pollen probably emits certain
vivific effluvia, which may ferve for the impregnation of
the feeds.
Mr Ray gave a further fandtion to the do&rine of
fexes, by concurring with Grew, and adding fome fur¬
ther illuftrations from analogy.
In the year 1695, Camerarius attempted to prove the
fexes of plants. But, as he trailed folely to the palm-
tree, and withal feemed to be doubtful as to the authen¬
ticity of the fadt, he cannot be confidered as having done
any thing in confirmation of the fexual hypothefis.
Mr Morland, in the year 1703, adopted the fame hy¬
pothefis ; but gave it a new modification, by fuppofing
that the pollen contained the feminal plant in miniature;
and confequently, that one pollen at leaft behoved to be
conveyed into every feparate feed before it could be pro¬
perly impregnated. Analogy and the ftrudture of the
parts are the only arguments he employs.
Some years after this, Mr Geoflxoy wrote a treatife
on the fexes of plants: But as he advanced nothing new,
we {hall take no further notice of him.
Vaillant, in the 1717, judicioufly confidering that
the canal in the llylus of moft plants was too narrow
to admit the pollen itfelf, republilhed Dr Grew’s theory
of impregnation by means of a fubtile feminal aura.
Thefe
644 B O T
Thefe are the fentiments of the principal botanifts
with regard to the generation of plants, till the celebra
ted Linnssus made his appearance as a botanical writer,
who has extended the idea fo far as to compofe a com¬
plete fyftem upon it.
Although Linnssus can have no claim to the fuppofed
tlifcovery of the fexual hypothefis, his being precifely the
fame with that of Dr Grew; yet, as he is the chief fup-
porter and improver of this do&rine, wefhall give a fuc-
cinft narration of the arguments he makes ufe of in or¬
der to prove that vegetables propagate their fpecies by a
regular commerce of fexes..
In a treatife, intitled, Sporfalia Plantarum, publilhed
as an inaugural differtation by Wahlbom, in the firll vo¬
lume of the Amcenitates Academica, all the arguments
made ufe of by Linnasus in his Fundamenta Bctanica
and other works, are collected and arranged in one view.
But as Wahlbom honeftly attributes all the merit of this
diflertation to his great mafter, we lhall here drop his
name altogether, and give the arguments as the proper¬
ty of Linnaeus, by whom they were originally employed.
Linnaeus, then, firlt attempts to (how, that vegetables
are endowed with a certain degree of animal life; and,
fecondly, that they propagate their fpecies in a manner
fimilar to that of animals.
“ That vegetables are really animated beings,” fays
he, “ muft be obvious at lirft fight; becaufe they pof-
lefs all the properties contained in that accurate definition
of life laid down by the great Dr Harvey, namely. Vita
eji fpontanea propuljio humorum. But univerfal experi¬
ence teaches, that vegetables propel humours or juices :
Hence it is plain that vegetables mull be endowed with
a certain degrees of animal life.”
Not trufting folely to a fyllogifm founded on a defini¬
tion, Linnaeus proceeds to fupport the life of vegetables
by arguments drawn from the following particulars in
their ceconomy; the firft of which he intitles
“ Nutritio.—The very idea of nutrition implies a
propulfion of humours, and, of courfe, the idea of life.
But vegetables derive their nourilhment from the earth,
air, <bc. and confequeptly mull be confidered as living
creatures.
“ 2. JEtas.—Every animal mull not qnly begin to
exift, and have that exigence dilfolved by death, but
mull likewife pafs through a number of intermediate
changes in its appearance and affe&ions. Infancy, youth,
manhood, old ape, are chara<5terifed by imhecillity, beau¬
ty, fertility, dotage-, are not all thefe viciflitudes con-
fpicuous in the vegetable world? Weak and tender in
infancy -, beautiful and falacious \n youth-, grave, ro-
buft, and fruitful in manhood; and when old age ap¬
proaches, the head droops, the fprings of life dry up,
and, in fine, the poor tottering vegetable returns to that
dujl from whence it fprung.
“ 3. Motus.—No inanimate body is capable of felf-
motion. Whatever moves fpontaneoufly is endowed with
a living principle ; for motion depends on the fpontaneous
propulfion of humours, and where-ever there is a fpon¬
taneous propulfion of humours, there alfo is life. That
vegetables are capable of motion is evident from the fol¬
lowing fads: Plants, when confined within doors, ah
A N Y.
ways bend towards the light, and fome of them even at¬
tempt to make their efcape by the windows. The
flowers of many plants, efpecially thofe of the fyngenefia
clafs, purfue the fun from eaft to weft, rejoicing in his
beams. Who then can deny that vegetables are pofief-
fed of living and felf-moving powers ?
“ 4. Morbus.—-Thz term difeafe means nothing
more than a certain corruption of life : It is well known,
that vegetables are fubjed to difeafes as well as animals :
.When over-heated, they turn thirfty, languifh, and fall
to the ground: When too cold, they are tormented
with the chilblain, and not unfrequently expire : They
are fometimes afflided with cancers ; and every plant is
infefted with lice peculiar to its fpecies.
“ 5. Mors.—Death is oppofed to life, the former
being only a privation of the latter. Experience (hows,
that every living creature muft die. But, as vegetables
are daily cut off by internal difeafes and external inju¬
ries ; as they are fubjed to death from the attacks of
hunger, thirft, heat, cold, &c. with what propriety
could vegetables be thus faid to die, unlefs we allow that
they previoufly, lived ?
“ 6. Anatomia.—Under this article we are referred
to Malpighius and Grew for the organic fibres, mem¬
branes, canals, veficles, <bc. of plants, as additional
proofs of their living powers.
“ ?• Organizatio.—Vegetables not only propel hu¬
mours, but alfo prepare and fecern a number of different
juices for the fruit,%the nedar, <bc. analagous to the va¬
rious fecretions in animal bodies.”
From thefe fads and obfervations, Linnasus concludes,
that plants are unqueftionably endowed with life as well
as animals; and then proceeds in the following manner
to fliew how thefe animated vegetables propagate their
fpecies.
After difeufling the long exploded dodrine of equivo¬
cal generation, he lays hold of another maxim of Dr‘
Harvey, viz. Omne vivutn ex ovo.—“ It being fully e-
svident,” fays he, “ from the foregoing chain of reafon-
ing, that vegetables are endowed with life, it neceflarily
follows, agreeable to this maxim of Harvey’s, that eve¬
ry vegetable muft in like manner derive its exiftence
from an egg. But as vegetables proceed from eggs, and
as it is the diftipguilhing property of an egg to give birth
to a being fimilar to that which produced it, die feed^
muft of courfe be the eggs of vegetables.
“ Granting then that the feeds of vegetables- are in¬
tended-by nature to anfwer the fame end as the eggs of
animals, and confidering at the fame time that no egg
can be fecundated without receiving an impregnation from
the male, it follows, that the feed or eggs of vegetables
cannot be fecundated' by any other means; Lienee alfd
the necelfity of vegetables being provided with organs of
generation. But where are thefe organs fituated ? The
anfwer is eafy:—We have already found impregnated
feeds within the flowers of plants ; and it is natural to
expett that the genitalia flvould not be at a great diftance.
Now, as copulation always precedes birth, and every
flower precedes the fruit, the generating faculty muft?
be aferibed to the flower, and the birth to the fruit.
Again, as the antherx and JUgmata are the only eflen-
B O T
tial parts of flowers,, thefe parts mufl neceflarily be the
organs of generation."
Being thus far advanced, Linnaeus affirms, that the
anther# are the tejies, and that the pollen performs the
office of the male femen. Thefe affirmations he attempts
to eftablifh by the following arguments; the firft of
which he terms
“ i. Pruecedentia.—The antherae, or vegetable teftes,
always precede the fruit; and as loon as the antherae
come to maturity, which conflantly happens before the
maturity of the fruit, they continue to throw out their
pollen as long as the flower lafts; but decay and fall off
whenever the fruit comes to perfedtion.
“ 2. Situs.—The antherae of all plants are uniformly
fituate in fuch a manner that the pollen may with the
greateft facility fall upon the ftigma or female organ.
“ j. Tempus. — The antherae and dHgmata always
flourilh at the fame time, whether the flowers be of the
hermaphrodite or dioicous kind.
“ 4. Localumenta.—When the antherae are diffedted,
they difcover as great a variety of flrudture as the peri-
carpia or feed capfules: For fome of them have one cell,
as the mercury; fome two, as the hellebore, 6'c.
“ 5. Cajiratio.—If all the antherae be cut off from
an hermaphrodite plant, juft before the flowers begin to
expand, taking care at the fame time that no plant of the
fame fpecies grows near it, the fruit will either prove en¬
tirely abortive, or produce barren feeds.
“ 6. Ftgura.—When the pollen of different plants
is examined by the microfcope, it exhibits as great a
variety of figures as is difcoverable in the feeds them-
felves
“ The accumulated force of thefe arguments”, con¬
cludes Linnaeus, “ amounts to a full demonftration that the
antherae are the teftes, and that the pollen is the femen
or gen’tura of vegetables.
“ The male organ being thus inveftigated, we hope,”
fays Linnaeus, “ that none will hefitate to pronounce
the ftigma to be the female organ, efpecially when the
following obfervations are fufficiently attended to.
“ The piftillum is compofed of the germen, ftylus,
and ftigma The germen being only a kind of rudiment
of the future foetus or feed, ceafes to exift as foon as
the flower comes to maturity. Neither is the ftylus an
effential part, as many flowers have no ftylus But no
fruit ever comes to maturity without the afliftance of the
ftigma. It follows, that the ftigma muft be the female
organ adapted by nature for the reception of the pollen
or impregnating fubftance. This will appear ftill clear¬
er from the following chain of reafoning.
“ 1. Situs.—The ftigmata are always fituate fo that
the pollen may with moft eafe fall upon them. Befides,
it is remarkable, that in moft plants (though not in all)
the number of the ftigmata exadUy correfponds with the
loculamenta or cells of the pericarpium.
“ 2. Tempus.—Here the obfervadon. that the ftigmata
and antherae conftantly flourifir at the fame time, is re¬
peated.
“ 3 . Decidentia.—Thz ftigmata of moft plants, like
the antherae, decay and fall off as foon as they have dif-
charged their proper fuijdlionj which evidently fhows,
V.ol. I. Numb. 27 3
A N Y, .645
that their office is not to ripen the fruit, but folely to
anfwer the important purpofe of impregnation.
“ 4. 'Abfcifio.—The argument here is precifely the
fame with the caftration of the antherae ; and the refult
is likewife the fame, namely, the deftrudtion of the fruit.
“ Thefe arguments,” concludes Linnaeus, “ are
fufficient to demonftrate, that the ftigma is the female
organ of generation, or that organ which is fuited
for the reception and conveyance of the femen to the
vegetable eggs. Hence, plants may be faid to be in
aftu veneris, when the antherae, or tefticuli, fpread
their pollen over the ftigma or female vulva "
To (how how the oitus of vegetables is effedted, is
our author’s next objedt of inveftigation. He affirms,
that the pollen is conveyed, by means of the wind or in-
fedis, to the moift ftigma, where it remains until it dif-
charges a fubtile fluid, which, being abforbed by the
veflels of the ftigma, is carried to the feeds or ova, and
impregnates them. His proofs are taken from the fol¬
lowing particulars.
“ 1 Oculus.—When the flowers are in full blow,
and the pollen flying about, every one may then fee the
pollen adhering to the ftigma. This he dluftrates by
mentioning as examples the viola tricolor, iris, campa¬
nula, be.
“ 2. Prop or iio.—Thz ftamina and piftilla, in moft
plants are of equal heights, that the pollen, by the inter¬
vention of the wind, may, with the greater facility, fall
upon the ftigma.
“ 3. Locus.—The ftamina of moft plants furround
the piftillum, to give the pollen an opportunity of falling
on the ftigma at every breeze of wind. Even in the mb-
noecia clafs, the male flowers ftand generally above the
female ones, to afford an eafier conveyance of the pol¬
len to the ftigma.
“ 4. Tempus It is remarkable that the ftamina and
piftilla conftantly appear at the fame time, even in plants
belonging to the monoecia clafs.
“ 5 Pluvias.—The flowers of moft plants expand by
the heat of the fun and lhut themfelves up in the even¬
ing or in rainy weather. The final cahfe of this muft
be, to keep the moifture from the pollen, left it fliould
be thereby coagulated, and of courfe prevented from be¬
ing blown upon the ftigma.
“ 6. PabnicoU.—That the cultivators of palm trees
were in ufe to pull off the fpadices from the males, and
fufpend them over the fpathae of the females, is at efted
by Theophraftus, Pliny, Profper Alpinus, Kempfer, and
many others. If this operation happened to be negledt-
ed, the dates were four and deftitute of nuts. Kemp¬
fer adds this fingul-ar circumftanee, that the mffie fpa-
dix, after being thoroughly dried and kept till next fea-
fon, ftill retained.its impregnating virtue.
“ 7. tlores nutanies.—As the pollen is fpecifical(y
heavier than air, fuch flowers as have their piftdluni
longer than the ftamina, hang down, or incline to one
fide, e. g. the fritillaria,. campanula, be. An eafy ad-
mLion of the pollen to the ftigpia, is the final caufe of
this appearance.
“ 8. Suhmerfi.—-Many plants that grow below wa¬
ter, emerge when their flowers begin to blow, and fiwim
-{• 8 A upon
6^6 B O T
upon the fur face till they receive their impregnation, and
then fink down.
“ 9. Omnium florum genuina conjideratio.—Here a
number of particulars are recited. We ihall confine our-
felves to thofe that are moft linking and applicable to the
fubje#.
“ When the flowers of the male hemp are pulled off
before thofe of the female are fully expanded, the fe¬
males do not produce fertile feeds. But as a male flower
isfometimes found upon a female plant, this may be the
reafon why fertile feeds are fometimes produced even af¬
ter this precaution has been obferved.
“ The tulip affords another experiment to the fame
purpofe.—Cut olf all the antherae of a red tulip before
the pollen is emitted; then take the ripe antherae of a
■white tulip, and throw the pollen of the white one upon
the lligma of the red; the feeds of the red tulip being
thus impregnated by one of a different complexion, will
next feafon produce fome red, fome white, but moft va¬
riegated flowers.”
In the year 1744, Linnaeus publilhed a defcription of
a new genus, which he called peloria, on the fuppofition
of its being a hybrid or *»«/<? plant, i, e. a plant produ¬
ced by an unnatural commixture of two different genera.
The root, leaves, caulis, tic. of this plant are exceed¬
ingly fimilar to thofe of the antirrhinum linaria; but the
flower and other parts of fru<ftification are totally differ¬
ent. On account of its fimilarity to the linaria in every
part but the flower, Linnaeus imagined it to have been
produced by a fortuitous commixture of the linaria with
fome other plant, although he has never yet been able to
condefcend on the father. This do&rine of the produc¬
tion of mule plants has fihce been greatly prized and
carefully propagated by Linnaeus and the other fupport-
ers of the fexual hypothefis. In the third volume of
the /Inmnitates Academic#, there is a complete differta-
tion, intitled, Plant# Hybrid#, wherein the doctrine of
vegetable mules is much improved and extended. This
differtation contains a lift of 47 mules, with their fuppo-
fed fathers and mothers. For example.
The Veronica Spuria is faid to be a plant begot
by tire verbena officinalis upon the veronica maritima.
The delphinium hybridum, a mule begot by the aconitum
napelius upon the delphinium datum.
The ar&otis calendula, a mule begot by the calendula
pluvialis upon the ar&otis triftis.
The afclepias nigra,, a mule begot by the cynanchum acu-
tum upon the alclepias vincetoxicum, tic.
From the examples given in this differtation, Linnaeus
draws this lingular concliifion, that only two fpecies of
each genus exifted ah origine ; and that all the variety of
fpecies which now appear have been produced by unna¬
tural embraces betwixt fpecies of different genera.
Under this head, Linnaeus likewife quotes from Ray the
ftory of Richard Baal gardener at Brentford. This Baal
ibid a large quantity of the feeds of the braffica florida to
feveral gardeners in the fuburbs of London. Thefe gar¬
deners, after fowing their feeds in the ufual manner, were
furprifed to find them turn out to be plants of a different
ANY.
fpecies from that which Baal made them believe they had
purchafed; for, inftead of the brafica florida, the plants
turned out to be the brallica longifolia. The gardeners,
upon making the difeovery, commenced a prolecution of
fraud again!! Baal in Weftminfter-hall. The court found
Baal guilty of fraud, and decerned him not only to re-
ftore the price of the feeds, but likewife to pay the gar¬
deners for their loft time, and the ufe of their ground.
“ Had thefe judges (fays Linnaeus) been acquainted with
the fexual hypothefis, they would not have found Baal
guilty of any crime, but would have aferibed the acci¬
dent to the fortuitous impregnation of the braflica florida
by the pollen of the braflica longifolia.”
Linnaeus next proceeds to celebrate the utility of in¬
fects, becaufe they convey the pollen of the male to the
ftigma of the female. “ In this way,” fays he, “ it is
reafonable to think that many dioicous plants are impreg¬
nated. Nay, even the hermaphrodites themfelves are
greatly obliged to the different tribes of infe&s, which,
by fluttering and treading in the corolla, are conftantly
fcattering the pollen about the ftigma.
“ Upon the whole,” then, concludes Linnaeus, “the
coitus of vegetables is evident to a demonftration This
coitus is nothing more than the conveyance of the pollen
to the ftigma, to which it adheres till it burfts and dif-
charges a fubtile elaftic fluid. This fluid or aura is ab-
forbed by the veffels of the ftylus, and carried dire&ly
to the ovarium or germen, where the myfterious work of
impregnation is fully com pleated.”
These are the arguments' employed by Linnxus and
other advocates for the fexual commerce of vegetables.—
Let us next attend to thofe employed by the oppofers of
this hypothefis.
It is admitted by Pontedera, Dr Alfton, tic. that
fome of the acients applied the terms male and female to
feveral plants. But then they deny that thefe terms con¬
veyed the fame ideas to the ancients that they do io the
moderns. Male and female, when applied to plants,
were to the ancients mere terms of diftimftion, ferving
only as trivial names to diftinguilh one fpecies or variety
from another. The ancients were ignorant of the very
charaffers which conftitute the difference between what
is called a male and female plant among the moderns.
Theophraftus, Diofcorides, Pliny, and, in a word, the
whole ancient bontanical writers, confound the very no¬
tion of the modern fexes ; they call the real female, or
feed-bearing plant, the male; and the male, or barren
plant, the female. Nay, they have even applied the
terms male and female to many plants which bear no*
thing but hermaphrodite flowers.
Such is the nature of this controverfy, that it cannot
be determined with any degree of certainty, but by ex¬
periments made upon dioicous plants. If a female plant
can produce fertile feeds without having any communica¬
tion with the pollen of the male, the'ufe of this pollen,
with refpect to the impregnation of feeds, muft of necef-
fity be entirely fuperfeded.
Now, both Camerarius and Dr Alfton tried thefe ex¬
periments with the fame fuccefs. Thofe two eminent
botanifts took,female plants; of the mercury, fpinage, and
hemp.
B O T
liemp, tranfplanted them at a great diftance from any
males of the fame genus, and befides had them inclofed
'by double rows of hedges. The refult was, that each
of thefe plants produced great quantities of fertile feeds.
Tournefort made the fame trial upon the lupulus, Mil¬
ler upon the bryony, and Geoffroy upon the mays ; and
all of them declare that the feeds of thefe plants were as
fertile as if they had been furrounded by athoufand males.
Linnaeus, in his firft argument for the coitus of plants,
refers every man to the evidences of his fenfes.
“ Do we not fee, (fays he) the ftigma of almoft every
hermaphrodite flower covered over with the pollen or im¬
pregnating fubltance ? Do not we fee the parietaria, the
urtica, fyc. by violent exploflons, difcharging their pol¬
len in the open air, that it may be carried in that ve¬
hicle to the ftigmata of their refpedfive females —All
this is admitted by the oppofers of the fexes; but then
they deny that thefe explofions, &c. are intended to
create any intercourfe between the male and the female ;
and further alledge, that this ejeftion of the pollen is in¬
tended by nature to throw off fomething excrementitious,
or at leal! fomething, which, if retained,, would prove
noxius to the fruftification.
Linnaeus takes his fecond argument from the propor¬
tion which the ftamina bear to the ftylus, alledging that
they are generally of the fame height.—This obferva-
tion is riot only contrary to experience, but, allowing
it to be univerfal, no conclufion can be drawn from it
either for or againft the fexual hypothefis.
The third argument is taken from the locus or fituation
of the ftamina with refpedt to the ftylus ; “ and as the
male flowers in the monoecia clafs ftand always above
the female flowers, it muft be concluded (lays Linnaeus)'
that the intention of nature, in this difpofltion of the
parts, is to allow a free and eafy accefs of the pollen to
the ftigma.”—But the ftamina cannot be faid to furround
the piftillum in the monandria and diandria claffes : And
the pofition of the male flowers in the monoecia clafs is a
mere chimera; for in the ricinus, one of the examples
which Linnaeus mentions in confirmation of his do&rine,
the female flowers ftand uniformly fome inches above the
males.
7'hat the ftamina and piftilla generally come to per-
feffion at the fame time, and that this happens even in
the dioicous plants, is Linnseus’s fSurth argument. But,
as it is acknowledged by Linnaeus himfelf, that there are
many exceptions with refpeift to this fad, the oppofers
of the fexual hypothefis aliedge that it carries the beft an-
fwer in its own bofom.
The fifth argument is founded on the cireumftance of
fome flowers (hutting up their petals in rainy or moift
evenings.—But many flowers do not (hut themfeives up,
either in the night or moift weather, as the pafiion-ftower,
foe. The lychnis nodiflora, mirabilis peruvianse, foe.
open their flowers in the night, and (lint them at the
approach of the fun. Hence this is another final caufe
evidently perverted to fupport a favourite hypothefis.
We come now to the culture of the palm-tree, which-
is the fixth and moft plaufible argument employed by the
fexualifts. Herodotus, Theophraftus, Pliny, and fome
others, have informed us, that the.female palm-tree, uulefs
ANY. 647
a male grows (iifficiently near it, or unlefs the pollen be
artificially conveyed to the female fpatha, will produce
nothing but four dates and unfertile feeds. This fad is
partly denied by Pere-Labat and Touinefort. The for¬
mer of thefe authors exprefsly affirms, that a female palm-
tree, in the garden belonging to the monaftery at Mar-
tinico, produced moft excellent fruit, although there was
not a male within fix miles' of it: From which he con¬
cludes, that the prefence of the male is not neceffary to
render this tree fruitful, whatever may be pretended by
ancient or modern naturalifts. Herodotus relates, that
the people of Babylon, when the male was at too great
a diftance from the female, made a rope pafs from the
boughs of the one to the boughs of the other, to afford
an opportunity to the culices and other infeds to pafs
along the rope, and convey fome kind of impregnating
influence from the male to the female. Tournefort,
when he was in that country, inquired at the moft in¬
telligent people of the place, as to the truth of this re¬
lation; but received for anfwer. That they had never
heard of any fuch matter. Even the favourers of the
fexual hypothefis give very different accounts of the me¬
thod of cultivating palm-trees in thofe countries. Vef-
lingius, who refided many years in Egypt, denies that
any artificial method is employed for frudifying the
palm-trees in that country. Thus Vefiingius exprefsly
contradids Herodotus and many others. In a word, al-
moft every different author gives a different account of
this ftory. Amidft fo many contradidions concerning the
culture of palm-trees, the oppofers of the fexes-conclude,
that the whole ftory is a vular error, taken for granted
by fome learned men, fpurioufly fathered upon others,
and fwallowed down without examination by their cre¬
dulous readers.—As we have not feen any anfwer to
Mykfius’s letter on this fubjed, our obfervations upon it
(hall be referved till this hiftorical view, of the conuo-
verfy be (infilled.
The feventh argument of Linnteus is taken from the
flons nutuntes.—The piftils of thefe flowers, according ;
to Linnaeus, are always longer tlian the ftamina, and na¬
ture has afligned them this penfile pofture, that the pol¬
len, which is fpecifically heavier than air, may the more
conveniently fall upon the ftigma.—But the piftils of the
campanula, lilium, and many other fiorss nutantes, are
not longer than the ftamina. Befides, granting this
were uniformly the cafe; yet, as the pollen is heavier
than air, this pofture muft of neceflity either make the
pollen mifs the piftillum altogether, or, at any rate, it
can only fall upon the back part of the piftil in place of
the ftigma; and, of courfe, fuch a diredion would ra¬
ther tend to fruftrate than promote the impregnation of
the feed.
The eighth argument is taken from the plant# ful-
merf#, which are faid to emerge as foon as their flowers
begin to blow, left the pollen (hould be coagulated or
waftied off by the water.—But many fubmarine and aqua¬
tic plants frudify entirely below water; and, fuppofing
they did not, the fame argument would equally prove it
to be the intention of nature, that the pollen (hould be
blown away by the winds, as that it fliould be fubfer-
vieat . to .the impregnation of the feed.
The,
o48 B O T
The ninth and laft .argument is intitled Omnium florum
■genuina conjideratio ; which is nothing more than a col-
JcAion of vague obfervations upon the ftrudture and (Eco¬
nomy of particular plants, fome of them true, others
-falfe, but all of them evidently thruft in as fupports to a
favourite hypothefis.
Having thus given a pretty full hiftorical view of the
•controverfy concerning the fexes of plants, we (hall now
lay before our readers a few obfervations that have oc¬
curred from the perufal of it. ^
It may be obferved in general, that the fadts and ar¬
guments adduced by the fexualiits are by far too few to
admit of any general indudHon. Nay, moll: of them are
merely accidental, many of them not being uniform even
in the fame fpecies; and the final caufes of the whole are
unnatural, and tortured fo as belt to anfwer the pur
poles of a theory, which, for all that hath yet been faid,
merits no higher appellation than that of a whimlical
conjedture.
Firlt, then, Linnxus’s reafoning is of a mixt nature,
partly analogical, partly founded on obfervation. He
lets out with an attempt to prove, that plants are en¬
dowed with a certain degree of animal life ; and his fun¬
damental reafon is, becaufe, agreeable to Dr Harv y’s
definition of life, they fpentaneoufly propel humours.—
Strange, that a man of Linnseus’s capacity, or indeed of
any capacity at all, Ihould ferioully employ an argument
pregnant with every degree of abfurdity !—Stranger dill
that he Ihould take up near twenty pages in illuftrating
and drawing conclufions from fuch an argument —If
Harvey has given a vague and unintelligible definition of
life, can that be a fufficient excufe for laying hold of
fuch a definition in order to fortify an unltable hypothe¬
fis ? But, were Harvey’s definition more accurate than it
is, and were vegetables adlually pofleHed of living powers,
it is eafy to conceive how the life of vegetables might
be a proper teft of, or contradidlion to, the received de¬
finition: But, how a definition, which, from the com
plex and intricate nature of the fubjeft defined, mud
neceffarily be vague and precarious, can be employed in
confirmation of any general theory exceeds the powers
of common apprehenfion.
But let us examine this notable definition a little fur¬
ther: What idea of life does a fpontaneous propuljion of
humours convey? If Harvey means to fay, that men
and other animals regulate the motion of their blood,
and the fecretions of their different humours, by certain
exertions of the fentient principle, fuch a meaning is
contradided by univerfal experience ; lo far is this from-
being the cafe, that the mod abdradt attention cannot
render us confcious of thefe motions. Again, if he
means, that every body is endowed with life, whofe or
gans are fuited to propel humours, then the term fpon
tunsous is abfurd, becaufe it aferibes intelledfual powers
to the organs themfelves. than which nothing can be
more ridiculous. Befides, allowing the organs to enjoy
an independent faculty of propulfion, what does this pro-
pulfi n mean when applied to vegetables ? Surely no¬
thing more than a power of conveying certain liquors
from the root to the fuperior parts of the plant. A wet
A N Y/
cloth, with one end in contadl with the water in any
vedel, and the other hanging over its fide, will do the
fame; fo will a fpunge, fo will a bed of loofe fand, fo
will a fugar loaf, i&c. ; but it is to be hoped, that man¬
kind have more fenfe than to believe that a bit of cloth,
or a fugar loaf, are animated beings.
As confcious, of the lamenefs and futility of his rea¬
foning on this fubjedt, Linnaeus endeavours further to
corroborate the life of vegetables by analogies drawn
from their nutrition, age, motions, difeafes, d( ath, ana^
tomy, and organization. In thefe nothing new or re¬
markable occurs, excepting the uncommon method of
reafoning, and the Hill more whimfical purpofes to which
this reafoning is applied. We fhall take notice of his
arguments under the articles of motion and death, which
indeed are the chief of thofe which do not depend more
or lefs upon the above definition.
Under the former of thefe, Linnaeus informs us, that
plants, when confined within doors, always bend to-
waids the light; and that many flowers, particularly thofe
of the fyngenefia clafs, purfue the cofirfe of the fun from
eaft to weft. This inclination of flowers towards the
light, Linnaeus would haye us to believe are real inftan-,
ces of the living powers and fpontaneous motion of plants.
—This phenomenon, however, may be eafily accounted
for, independent of any idea of life. Every body knows,
that a,certain degree of heat relaxes the tone of the ve¬
getable organs, and at the fame time proportionally eva¬
porates the fluids which thefe organs contain. Now, to
whatever fide of the plant that heat is principally applied,
there of neceflity muft alfo be the grgateft flaccidity of
the fibres, and the greateft evaporation of the fluids; of
courfe, from the law of gravitation, the flower, indeed
the whole plant, muft incline towards that fide from
whence the light or heat proceeds. The flighteft obfer-
yation is fufficient to convince us of the propriety of this
method of accounting for the inclination of heavy flowers
fupported by weak ftems, towards the rays of the fun.
If a pot of flowers be put loofely into a glafs, and al¬
lowed to remain a little time in an apartment where a fire
is burning, as foon as the fibres begin to be enervated,
they all, unlefs cbftrudted by fome other caufe, bend to¬
wards the fire. Hence the abfurdity of aferibing this
phenomenon to a fentient and living principle, which is
more eafily and with more certainty explained by the
common laws of mechanifm.
Let us next attend to Linnxus’s argument under the
article of death. After telling us, with much folemnity,
that death is only a privation of life, and that vegetables
die of many grievous diftempers, he thus concludes;
“ With what propriety,” fays he, “ could vegetables
be thus faid to die, unlefs it be allowed that they previ-
oufly lived?" However, if the life of vegetables hath
no other fupport than this trifling quibble, (for it merits
not the name of argument), we are afraid that every man
of common fenfe will conclude, that they never were en¬
dowed with life, and confequemly cannot, with any
more propriety than an ordinary figure of fpeech can be¬
llow, be faid to die.
Having in this manner attributed living powers to ve¬
getables, Linnteus, in the next place, makes an effort to
fhow
BOX
fbow, that they enjoy the faculty of generation. But
what procefs of-argumentation does he employ ? He lays
hold of another maxim of Dr Harvey : Omne vivum ex
evv,'fays Harvey. “ Now,” adds Linnasus, “ we have
already proved that vegetables live ; and therefore they
muft in like manner derive their origin from eggs. A-
gain, no eggs can be fertilized without receiving an im¬
pregnation from the femen of the male : yVnd hence the
eggs or feeds of vegetables'mull likewife be impregnated
by the male vegetable femen, in order to their fertiliza¬
tion. Further, it is an elfential property ot an egg to
produce a creature of the fame fpecies with that from
which itfelf was produced: Hence the feeds are the eggs
of vegetables. Befides, as the anthers and Uigmata are
the only efiential parts of a flower, it follows, that thefe
parts are the organs of generation.” In this way Lin
naeus goes on till he finds the anthers to be the teftes ;
the pollen, the femen; and the ftigma, the female or¬
gan of generation.
But, as we have already (hewn that Linnsus has re¬
markably failed in the proof of his firft point, namely,
that vegetables are endowed with life, his fubfequent rea-
foning, which refts folely on the fuppofltion of the living
powers of vegetables, muft of courfe fall to the ground.
However, allowing a fpontaneous propuifion of hu¬
mours to be a perfect definition of life, philologies are
far from being agreed with regard to the propriety of
Harvey’s fecond maxim. Omne vivum ex ovo may be
be applied to a great variety of animals. But to this
day it remains a very doubtful point, whether man and
moll quadrupedes derive their exiftence from the fame
fource. Hence the impropriety of drawing an analogy
from a property not univerfal even among the animal cre¬
ation in order to fupport an imaginary one among the ve¬
getable tribes.
When our author comes to explain the manner in which
the coitus of vegetables is performed, he tells us that
the pollen may be feen lying upon the top of the ftigma
in moft hermaphrodite flowers, where it is diflblved by
the moifture which conftantly adheres to that part; and
after this diflblution, that the feminal aura contained in
the pollen is abforbed by the ftigma, and fo conveyed
direftly to the feeds.
This account of the coitus lies open to two objedions.
ift. Admitting that the pollen may be fe§n adhering to
the ftigmata of moft hermaphrodite plants, and admitting
likewife that moifture caufes the pollen to burft and dif-
charge a fnhtile fluid, ftill a very natural queftion occurs
with regard to the abforbing quality of the ftigma It is
true, that the top of the ftigma is generally covered with
moifture. But does not this indicate that the proper
office of the ftigma is to fecern and propel rather than
to abforb moifture ? It will be the more readily admit¬
ted, that the veflels of the ftigma are not fuited to ab¬
forb, if it be confidered that the moifture of the ftigma is
fubjeded to a conftant evaporation, and of courfe muft al¬
ways ftand in need of newfupplies of this liquor, which can
flow from no other fource than the internal veffels of the
ftigma itfelf. It may indeed be alledged, that the ftigma
is furnilhed with two fets of veflels, one for abforbing
the feminal fluid, another for fqcerning the diflblving
Von. I. No. 28. 3
ANY. 649
moifture. No body, however, has ever pretended to
fliow that the ftigma is poffefled of any peculiar veflels
for abforbing; whereas every man’s eyes will, convince him
that it is poflefled of fecerning veffels: Hence, until the
abforbing quality of the ftigma be fufficiently proved, the
poflibility of an impregnation in this way muft: at leaft re¬
main problematical.
2dly, Linnaeus makes the appearance of the pollen ad¬
hering to the ftigmata of hermaphrodite flowers an ocu¬
lar demonftration of an actual coitus. Granting this to
be an ocular demonftration of the coitus of vegetables,
ftiould not the pollen be likewife feen adhering to the
ftigmata of dioicous plants ? But the appearance of pol¬
len upon the ftigmata of dioicous plants has never yet
been difcovered. We may, therefore, fairly conclude,
that if the appearance of pollen upon the ftigmata of her¬
maphrodite flowers be an ocular demonftration of the
coitus or copulation of plants, the want of that appear¬
ance, or no pollen’s being ever feen upon the ftigmata
of dioicous flowers, muft likewife be an ocular - demon-
ftration of the contrary !
In fupporting theoretical opinions, mankind are ex¬
tremely apt to render the fubjeft ridiculous by pufhing
them too far. No man ever blundered more remarkably
in this refpedt than Linnasus He is not fatisfied with
attributing life and a generative faculty to plants: He
muft: likewife attempt.to prove, that this generative fa¬
culty is fo ftrong and vigorous, as to enable them to
produce hybrids or mules, by means of unnatural com¬
mixtures. -
In fupport of this notion, he tells us, that, when the
antherae of a red tulip are cut off, and the ripe atltherae
of a white one are lhaked over the ftigma of the red one,
the feeds of the red tulip, by this artificial impregnation,
will produce flowers ftreaked with red and white. Of
this fadt no body who knows any thing of the nature of
tulips, and the changes to which the colour of their
flowers are liable, will entertain any doubt. But this
change of colour is evidently afcribed to a wrong caufe ;
for the fame change would unqueftionably happen whe¬
ther the anthene of the white tulip had been lhaked 0-
ver the ftigma of the red one or not. When tulips blow
for the firft time, their petals are generally of one uniform
colour. For feveral fucceeding feafons this original colour
continues to vary, in fo much that, by certain methods
of culture, the colour of the flower may be varied with¬
out end. Linnaeus, in his fyftematic works, wifely cau¬
tions his readers not to found any diftindtions upon the
colour of plants, which, he obferves, is fubjedt to fueh
numberlefs alterations from culture, foil, and other ca-
fual incidents, that it can never furnifli the botanift with
any permanent or uniform marks. With what propriety,
then, LinnAis attributes the change in the colour of
this tuiip to his artificial impregnation, is fubmitted to
the. conlideration of his warmeft admirers.
The firfl: hint of mules was taken from a plant the fi¬
gure and difpofition of whofe leaves, (3c. refembled the
antirrhinum linar a, or common yellow toad-flax : but
attended with this peculiarity, that its parts of frudfifica-
tion were entirely diffimilar. Linnaeus, when the plant
was firft prefented to him, imagined it to be fome kind
f 8 B of
650 B G T
of deception. But, after a more accurate examination,
the notion of a fpurious iffue opportunely came to his
aid. The thought pleafed him on a double account: It
bad a direft tendency to corroborate his favourite hypo-
thefis, and laid the foundation of another ftill more ex¬
travagant. Now, thinks he, by this ineftimable difco-
very, we ihall be enabled to take a dry and rigid plant
from the mountain’s top, make it copulate with a moilt
and fpungy aquatic, and their offspring will participate
of the rigidity and hardnefs of the former, together
with the moifture and llaccidity of the latter; and hence
mankind fhall foon be bleffed with an eafy purchafe of
their united virtues when flourifhing in the intermediate
vale ! More wonderful ftill, we fhail caufe the plants
which dwell upon the frozen mountains of Greenland to
intermarry with the more delicate and wayward inhabi¬
tants of the torrid zone, and the conftitutions of their
children fhall be fo moulded and attempered, that they
will live moft comfortably in every temperate clime!—
Not cemented with extracting two theories out of this
ftpgle plant, Linnseus forms a third ftill more wild and
fantaftical: “ From this curious phamomenon,” fays he,
“ it is natural to think, that only two fpecies of each
genus exifted ab origins, and that all the variety of fpe¬
cies which now appear are only the fpan of fortuitous
commixtures I”
If either the fortuitous or artificial copulation of two
different fpecies were capable of producing a third per-
fedfly diftinft from the other two, the number of fpecits
would be infinite. According to our author, every blaft
of wind, every butterfly, would daily produce hundreds
of new fpecies. Neither the gardener nor hufbandman
could pu c! afis feeds with fafety, unlefs they could difeo-
ver, from infpe&ion, whether they had been impregnated
by the femen of the fame, or of a different fpecies. Lin¬
naeus would have us to believe, not only that different
fpecies of the fame genus copulate together, but even
that genera belonging to different clafl'es engender, and
beget mules. For example, he makes the poterium hy-
bridum a mule, begot by the agrimonia eupatoria upon the
poterium fanguiforba. The agrimonia belongs to the do-
decandria digynia clafs, and the poterium to the moncecia
polyandria. Now, let any man ferioufly confider the un¬
avoidable confequences that would follow on the fuppofi-
tion that this wanton proftitution of fexes really exifted a-
mong vegetables. In the firft place, it would be impof-
fible to reduce botany to any regular fyftem; for every
feafon would produce fuch a troop of new and ftrange
plants, as would confound every fcheme or method of
claffification that ever was, or ever will be invented. A
botanift, for inftance, carefully colledts. and preferves the
feeds of the poterium, in order to raife that plant next
feafon; but, after fowing the feeds, to his utter afto-
nifhrnent, not a Angle poterium appears, but every one
of them is metamorphofed into a fpecies of agrimonia, a
plant fo totally different that it cannot even be arranged
under the ftime clafs. adly, Linnseus is obliged to con-
fefs, that his vegetable mules, are not fubjefted to that
perverfe law of nature, which cruelly prevents animal
mules from propagating their fpecies. On the contraty,.
his vegetable mules enjoy all the Tweets, of mutual era-
A N Y.
braces, and all the comforts that arife from a numerou
progeny ! It is a happy circumftance that the ceconomy
of nature is not influenced by the whims and caprices of
thofe very ingenious and learned gentlemen whofe heads
are conftantly hunting after hypothetical phantoms.
There is hardly a general theory of the oeconomy of a-
nimals, or vegetables, which, on the fuppofition of its
truth, would not in a very fnort time extirpate both a-
nimals and vegetables from the face of the earth. In the
tlieory under confideration, we have not only mules pro¬
duced by different genera and fpecies, but thefe very
mules fuccefsfuliy propagating their kinds, and fubject
to be metamorphofed ad infinitum by fubfequent im¬
pregnations. This would be ftrange work indeed i How
unlike the oeconomy of nature !— Let us take an exam¬
ple, and trace it through a few metamorphofes. A net¬
tle receives an impregnation from an oak, the feed falls
to the ground, a plant of a very uncouth afpe<5t fprings
up ; it is no longer a nettle, neither is it an oak; but
then it makes an excellent mule ! This mule next re¬
ceives an impregnation from a turnip ; the feed now brings
forth neither a nettle, an oak, nor a common mule, but
fomething fo monfttuc-is that no language can afford a
name for it ! Thefe are a few of the confequences that
would inevitably happen, if this theory of fexuai em¬
braces were really founded in nature.
It is natural to think, that no author would venture to
publifh a theory of this kind, without having previoufly
made a great variety of fuccefsful experiments. If plants
were really capable of unnatural commixtures, anyperfoir
might make many hundred mules in the fpace of twelve
months. But we can affirm with confidence, that Lin¬
naeus never made a fingle vegetable mule in bis lile. He
has indeed colledled forty-feven plants which he calls mules.
Why ? not becattfe they were produced by an artificial
or fortuitous impregnation ; but becaufe the leaves*
ftem, or parts of frudfification have a refemblance todbme
other genus or fpecies; even of thefe forty-feven he ac¬
knowledges tha.': thirteen cannot be depended upon. The
only attempts he has made to produce mules, have been
confined to a few hermaphrodite plants: When endea¬
vouring to impregnate a plant, Linn«eus proceeds in this
manner: He lays hold of a hermaphrodite plant juft be¬
fore the flowers begin to blow; unfolds the petals, puts,
off all the ftamina, and then with his own hands per¬
forms the office of a male plant, by fliaking the pollen,
of a difl’erent fpecies over its piftillum. This operation
being finifhed, he fows the feeds next feafon :—Now, if
Linnaeus’s theory were juft, thefe feeds fhould produce
mules, or plants which cannot be referred to any of the
two fpecies upon which the experiment was made. But
all the changes he has ever been able to produce by his
manual impregnations are confined to the colour of the
flower; a different ftreak or fhade in the petals paffes
with him for a mule or mixture of the fpecies, although,
in other parts of his works, he pofitively declares, that
generic or fpecific differences cati never be taken from
the colour of flowers, as it is conftantly liable to a thoufand
changes from caufes that are merely fortuitous.
But no experiment can be made with any degree of can¬
dor upon hermaphrodite flowers. No man can determine
with.
B O T
■with certainty what changes the young feeds may undergo,
what injury they may fuiFer, by prematurely forcing open
their petals and cutting off the ftamina. If a pregnant
animal be wounded, and in a part too intimately con¬
nected with the foetus, what reafon have we to hope for
a beautiful or well-proportioned offspring ? One thing
however is certain, that if the office of the (lamina, as is
alledged by the oppofers of the fexes, be to feparate and
carry off noxious or excrementitious matter from the
fruit, the retention of this matter would of itfelf intro¬
duce a change into the colour of the future plant ; be-
caufe in that cafe the feeds would not be properly purged
or rectified, being prematurely deprived of the veffels de¬
fined for that purpofe.
We (hall now examine the famous (lory of Baa! the
gardner at Brentford, related above in the hifforical view
of the controverfy. Linnaeus accufes Baal’s judges of
ignorance, becaufe they convicted him of fraud. But,
would not any judge fmile to hear himfelf branded
with ignorance, or a partial adminiftration of jultice,
merely becaufe he paid no regard to the fexual com¬
merce of plants in his decifiors ? It is happy for man¬
kind that judges are obliged to decide according to
law or equity, and not according to the hypothetical
whims of the naturalift.—But, even (uppofing Baal’s
judges to have had a perfect knowledge of the fexual com¬
merce of vegetables, and to have been at full liberty to
determine the point of law upon that medium, if they
had acquitted Baal of fraud, or at lead of negligence,
we (hbuld have been inclined to doubt both of their in¬
tegrity and ingenuity.—It is acknowledged, that great
quantities both' of the braffica florida and braffica longi-
folia were raifed that feafpn in Baal’s garden. A feedf-
man or gardner, in packing up many parcels of different
feeds, by the fimple error of putting a wrong mark upon
any of the parcels, would produce a imftake fimilar to
this of Baal’s. But, whether the circumitance took its
rife from negligence or fraud, belongs not to our prefent
inquiry. Even upon Linnxus’s own principles, it is far
from being clear of abfurdity, how, by a cafual impreg¬
nation, the fpecies of a plant could be entirely changed.
For, by the analogy of ail animals, nay, taking our ana¬
logy from Linnaeus’s vegetable mules, this fortuitous
impregnation (hould have only produced a mule, or mix¬
ture of the two fpecies, and not a perfedt metamorphofis of
either. Hence it may be fairly concluded, that this fa¬
mous dory, upon which the fexualids lay fo much drefs,
indead of drengthening, tends to the final dedrudtion of
that hypothefis in fupport of which it was originally ad¬
duced.
Of a fimilar nature is the dory contained in Mylius’s
letter to Dr Watfon. This gentleman writes to his cor-
refpondent, “ that a female palm tree grew many years
in the garden belonging to the Royal Academy at Berlin,
without producing any ripe or fertile fruit; that a mala
branch, with its flowers in full blow, was brought from
Leipfic, which is about twenty German miles from Ber¬
lin, and fufpended over the female; the refult of this
operation was, that the female, that very year, produced
joo ripe and fertile fruit. The fame experiment being
repeated the following year, 2000 ripe fruit were pro-
A N Y. 651
duced.”^—Not to call Mylius’s veracity in quedion,
we (hall allow the fadt to be as he has related it: Ne-
verthelefs it is far from being fatisfadtory. Berlin is
not the native climate of palm-trees. Mylius in¬
forms us, that- this palm bore flowers and fruit for thirty
years before the experiment was tried ; but the fruit
never came to full maturity. Now it is well known, that
many exotic plants, particularly thofe of the larger kinds,
feldom produce ripe fruit in a climate which is nor
adapted by nature for their nouriffiment, unlefs they are
afiided by artificial culture, and have grown in that cli¬
mate for a great number of years. Mylius’s palm-tree
had carried unripe fruit for the fpace of thirty years,.
Now, according to the ufual courfe of exotics, it is na¬
tural to think that, during all this time, the fruit was
every feafon making gradual advances towards perfedtion :
It might fo fall out, then, that at the very feafon when
the male branch was fufpended over the female, the
plant had arrived at the highed degree of'perfedtion it
could ever acquire in the climate of Berlin; and of coui fe, .
the accidental circumdance of fufpending the male branch
over it, at this critical period, might give rife to the
deception of attributing the perfedHon and fertilization of
the fruit to the prefence of the male branch. The cir¬
cumdance of the tree’s bringing forth only 100 ripe fruit
the fird year, and 2000 the fecond, remarkably favours
this account of the matter.
However, be this as it will, the experiment is fo very
defedtive, that no conclufion can be drawn from it either
for or againd the fexual hypothefis. To convince any
thinking perfon, that the fertility of this tree was folely
owing to fome impregnating virtu? derived to it from the
male branch, a brancK fliould have been fufpended over
the female one year, omitted the next, and fo on alter¬
nately for a courfe of years, or (as Linnaeus would ex-
prefs it), giving her a hulband one year, and depriving
her of that gratification the next. After treating the
female in this manner for feveral years, if it had uni¬
formly happened, that the fruit was fertile every year,
the male branch was fufpended over it, and unfertile e-
very year that the fufpenfion of the male branch was o-
mitted, then indeed there would have been a foundation-,
for concluding, that there was fome connedtion between
the fertility of the fruit and the prefence of the male
branch. But as this neceffary dep has* been negledled, .
the experiment Is incomplete, and the conclufion drawn,
from it uncandjd and precipitate.
We cannot conclude our remarks on this theory, with¬
out hazarding a few.obfervations on the truly miraculous:
effedls which Linmeus afcribes to the wind. In account¬
ing for the impregnation of all the dioicous. and mod of
the hermaphrodite plants, recourfe is condantly had to
the wind, which is faid to convey the pollen of the male:
to the digmata of the female. When the female again
is at fuch a didance as to render the carriage.of the pol-.
len fhfpicious or impoflible, our author is not difcouraged
by this circumdance,: but confidently affirms, that fome
infedt has been rummaging amongd the daraina of the
male, carries off a quantity of the pollen adhering to its.
legs, and, unconfcious of its precious load, flies from
flower to flower till it arrives at the unmarried female,
where-
•B 'o T
where flopping to take another bait,'it luckily depofites
fame Of this adhering pollen diredly upon the Ibgma of
the female l1—
Here it is proper to obferve, that generation is one of
the capital, and indeed one of the molt important laws of
nature that we are acquainted with. The law's of nature
are all lixed, Ready, and uniform in their operation. None
of the effefts produced by them are fuSjeft to thofe un¬
certainties which always reful't from chance or any for¬
tuitous train of circumRances. But is there any thing
in nature more unfeftled, defultory, and capricious, than
the direction and motions of the wind ? Can we form a
conception of any thing more cafual and fortuitous than
the wild and wayward paths of infedts ? 1 he very fup-
polition, therefore, that nature has left the generation of
at leafl a tenth part of the whole vegetable tribes to thefe
accidental caufes, mufl be unphilofophical, whimfical,
and dbfurd. We will be the more readily convinced of
the abfurdity of this dodtrine, when it is confidered that
many of the monoecious and dioicous plants are of the
ntmoR importance to the human race, and the confequent
impropriety that the-frudtification of thefe fliould be iub-
jed to the fpprt of the winds.
' After all, it requires the" utmoR flretch of fancy to
donceive the poilibility of a regular impregnation by
means of the wind, even when the male and female are
within yoo yards of each other, which is a much more
favourable fuppofition than two, three, or according to
fome authors, a dozen of miles. Conceive then a male
a id female hemp, or any other dioicous plant, growing 500'
yards afunder. Let the male and female flowers, which,
by the by, is not always the cafe, blow at the fame time.
tV'ell, the antherae are fully ripe; the pollen is dlfchar-
ged ; and the fligma, as our author exprefles it, gaping
nvids for its reception. Now, even this favourable fup¬
pofition is lubjed to fo many accidents* and pregnant
with fuch a troop of improbabilities, that it is absolutely
impoflible, upon any principles of belief hitherto invent¬
ed, to be fully perfuaded that the pollen, in fuch circum
Ranees, can be thus conveyed on the wings of the wind,
diredly to the Rigma, a point in moR plants juR not in-
vifible.—To accomplifh a regular impregnation in this
way. whenever the antherae are ripe, the wind muR blow
in a dired line from the male to the female; if the blaR
be too Rrong, it will overRioot the mark.; if too weak,
it will fall Ihort of it; if any vegetable or other body
higher than the plants themfelves intervene, the progrefs
oT the pollen wall be intercepted ;—if it rains, the pollen
Will be beat to the ground the leaR tremor of the air,
or fmaller blaR refleded from any other quarter, will in:
fallibly alter the diredionof this fluduating pollen: —
Nay, fuppofing Linwebs, or any other expert botaiiff,'
ftiould take his Ration by the male plant, having his poc¬
kets loaded with pollen; Rjppofe him,further to take e-
very advantage of wind and weather, and aiming at the
female, let him, for hours together, throw at her repeat¬
ed handfuls of this frudifying pollen, it is a thoufand to
one, if, at the diRance of 500 yards, a Angle grain of
pollen would touch any part of the female, and many
millions to one agamft its falling diredly upon the Rig-
raata of her refpedive flowers. In a word, this theory
A rN Y.
of impregnation by the wind, is a palpable refuge of ig¬
norance, invented with a view to account for the frudifi-
cation of diorcous plants, which Liqnaeus knew to be a
formidable barrier Randing in oppofition to the fexual
hypothefis. How far that obRa.cle is removed by this
vague fubterfuge, is fubmitted to the judgment of every
candid inquirer.
Upon the whole, we have endeavoured to fltow, that
every fad or experiment Linnaeus has employed to fup-
port his theory of the procreation of vegetables by means
of fexual embraces, is either falfe, or accidental; and
that the conclulions drawn from them are unnatural, and
often Rrained to fuch a pitch of extravagance as-renders
them truly ridiculous.
The only argument that now remains to be examined,
is drawn, from the analogy betwixt animals and vege¬
tables. That many beautiful analogies may be traced
betwixt the animal and vegetable, is an undeniable truth.
But, in reafoning upon a phyfical fubjed, which admits
of a clear determination by experiment, to truR foleiy
or chiefly to analogical dedudions, is an evident mark ei¬
ther of a bad reafoner or an unRable hypothefis. 7'he
very nature of analogy prefuppofeth fome radical difler-
ence in the fubjeds between which the refemblance fub-
fifls. If the analogy be fupported by fads and experi¬
ments, they mutually Rrengthen the evidence But, if
the analogy be not fupported by fads and experiments,
or, if the experiments contradid the analogy, which is
the cafe with the theory under confideration; in either of
thefe ittRances the analogy is carried beyond its proper -li¬
mits, and affords'no argument in favour of the hypothe¬
fis. Without the concurrence of fads, how can we be
certain but that the very property we contend for copRi-
tutes the effential difference betwixt the two fubjeds?
, Without fa.cis, how can we be certain but that generation
by the intercourfe of fexes is the,identical charadeiiRic
by whielf an animal and vegetable are diRinguifhed ?
Thefe' principles are applicable even in the cafe of a per-
fed and uniform analogy, but acquire an accumulated
force when the analogy is partial and incomplete, which
is evidently the cafe with regard to the fexual commerce
of vegetables.
For example, to compleat the analogy in dioicous
plants, a male Riould be uniformly found growing by the
fide of the female ; and befides, at the age of pube/ty, or
as foon as the antherse come to maturity, the male flower,
fhould be fitiiated in fuch a manner, that the pollen could
not poflibly mifs the Rigmata of the female flowers, from
whatever quarter the wind might blow: the fame thing
fltould take place with regard to the monoicous flowers.
But this is not the analogy prefented to qs by nature.-
On the contrary, the males and females feldom grow in
the neighbourhood of each other. Nothing is more
corhmon th n to meet with large beds of males growing
in one place, and large beds of females at the diRance of
fome miles from them, pointing out, as it were, that no
fieceffary connedion, no mutual affedion, no natural de¬
pendence fubfiRed between thefe males and females; but
rather that nature intended, for fome purpofe or other,
that they flioulfl be kept at a diRance.
Farther, the fexualiRs, in fupport of thexr theory,
are
BOX
are obliged to have recourfe to the unpardonable impro¬
priety of employing a double analogy, the one betwixt
the animal and vegetable, the other betwixt two differ¬
ent tribes of vegetables. In order to account for the
.propagation of the mufci, fungi, and, in a word, the
whole cryptogamia clafs, whole parts of generation are
either wanting altogether, or invifible to our eye-fight,
Linnaeus maintains, that, this circumftance notwithftand-
ing, they propagate their fpecies by a regular and uniform
commerce of fexes. “ As it has been proven (fays he) that
all thofe plants whofe organs of generations are vifible,
propagate their fpecies by male and female embraces ;
therefore ail thofe whofe organs are lefs fubjedt to our
obfervation, muft likewife propagate in the fame way.”
Before fuch reafoning as this can admit even of .a decent
apology, before the fexualifts attempt to fhew that fuch
plants enjoy the faculty of generation, it is incumbent
on them to prove that they are pofTeffed of generating
organs.
According to the doftrine of fexes in vegetables, an¬
other capital defeift, or rather redundance, occurs in the
analogy between the animal and vegetable. It is one of
the molt benevolent and ufeful laws in nature, that
mules, or fuch animals as are produced by the unnatural
commixtures of two different kinds, are deprived of the
capacity of propagating their monjlrous fpecies. It is
true, Linnaeus’s mules are not obliged to comply with
this law; they are not animal but vegetable mules; and
confequently may freely tranfmit their monjlrous iffue
to pollerity! As they are not objects of rewards or pu-
niihments, they cannot be anfwerable for the horrid con-
fequences of turning the whole vegetable world into con-
fufion, and covering the face of the earth with monlters
horrible to behold !
It is a trite obfervation, that no fault is more common
among bad writers than to render their arguments ridi¬
culous by hunting down metaphors or analogies till every
lhadow of refemblance be loll. It is equally true, that
this blunder occurs in almoft every page of Linnaeus’s
works. But it is peculiarly unlucky when an analogy
is of fuch a nature that it necelfarily runs into obfcenity
when treated in this manner. In purfuing a fexual ana¬
logy, the utmoll: delicacy of exprelfion is required. This
however is exceedingly difficult, efpecially when the ana¬
logy is pulhed beyond its natural limits. But, in per-
ufing the Sponfalia Plantarum, one would be tempted to
think, that the author had more reafons than one for re-
liffiing this analogy fo highly. In many parts of this
treatife, there is fuch a degree of indelicacy in the ex-
preffion as cannot be exceeded by the moft obfcene ro¬
mance-writer. For example, in p. 103. he fays, “ The
“ calix is the bride-chamber in which the ftamina and
“ piftilla folemnize their nuptials;” “ Vel, fi mavis
“ CUNNUS, feu Labia ejufdem, inter qux organa
“ genitalia mafculina & ferainina, delicatiffimae iflse partes,
“ foventur & ab externis injuriis muniuntur !—Corolla
“ eft aula um, vel potius nympho;!—Filament a funt vaja
“ fpermatica, quibus fuccus ex planta fecretus in an-
“ theras transfertur !—Ant her a ftmt Testiculi —
“ Pollen, feu pulvis amherarum, geniiuree Sc vermiculis
“ feminalibus refpondet.—Stigma eft vulva., in qua
Vol. I. No. 28. 3
A ‘ N Y. 653
“ agit genitura maris, quasque hanc excipit.—Stylus eft
“ vagina, vel potius pars ilia qua: tuba Fallopian# re-
“ fpondet.—Germen eft ovarium; continet etiam femina
“ fubventanea feu non foecundata ante copulam—Peri-
“ carpium & ovarium faecundatum."—In p. 90, <bc. we
meet with virginea vulva lafcive hians—tejira venerea
“ agitata, pijiillum Jligmate hiat, rapacis instar
“ draconis, nil nifi mafculinum pulverem affedtans.”
<bc. It is impoffible to do juftice to thefe expreffions in
any tranflation.
Befides the obfcenity of thefe paflages, it would be no
difficult talk to ffiow that the analogies are entirely with¬
out foundation. The calix is made to reprefent no lefs
than three things of very oppofite natures; lull, it is
analogous to the chamber of the bride, then to the fe¬
male organ, and laft of all to the Labia. What analogy
is there betwixt the corolla of a plant and the nymph#
of an animal ? Where is the analogy between the pollen
and the animalcules in femine mafculino ? See.
There is not any feience which has fo little connedfion
with theory as botany. Theory may perplex and con¬
found, but never can have the leaft tendency to affift the
botanic ftudent. A man would not naturally expedt to
meet with difgufting ftrokes of obfcenity in a fyftem
of botany. But it is a certain fadt, that obfcenity is
the very bafis of the Linnaean fyftem. The names of his
clalfes, orders, <kc. convey often the viieft and moft un¬
natural ideas. For example, diandria, the name of his
fecond clafs, is thus explained by Linnaeus, “ mariti
“ duo in eodem conjugio; feu ftamina duo in flore her¬
maphrodite;” i. e. one female married to fwo males ; or
two- ftamina in a hermaphrodite flower. The cumber
of males goes on increafing till the 13th clafs, the plants
belonging to which are faid to have from 20 to 1600
hu (bands to one wife!—W e might afk Linnseus, where
is the analogy in this fuppofition ? The fyngenefia clafs
is thus defined by Linnseus : “ Mariti genitalibus fdedus
“ conftituerunt; feu ftamina antheris in cylindrum coa-
“ lita;” i. e. the males have made a covenant with
their teftes ; or the ftamina are united by the am her# in
the form of a cylinder. The charadters of the orders are
ftiii worfe. Polygamia fruftranea, the name of an order
of the fyngenefia clafs, is thus defined: “ Fruftranea di-
“ citur, cum feminae maritatx, fertiles funt, et fpeciem
“ propagare queunt; caftratae, impregnari nequeunt.”
Men or philofophers can fmile at the nonfenfe and'abfur-
dity of fuch obfcene gibberiffi; but it is eafy to guefs what
effedb it may have upon the young and thouglitlefs.
But the bad tendency upon morals is not the only evil
produced by the fexual theory. It has loaded the beft
fyftem of botany that has hitherto been invented, with
a profufion of fooliffi and often unintelligible terms,
which throw an obfeurity upon the fcience, obftrudt the
progrefs <?f the learner, and deter many from ever enter¬
ing upon the ftudy.
Upon the whole, we muft conclude, that the diftinc-
tion of fexes among vegetables has no foundation in na¬
ture-, or, at leaft, that the fadts and arguments employ¬
ed in iupport of this dodtrine, when examined with any
degree of philofophical accuracy,' are totally infufficient
to eftablifli it.
t 8 C
BOTAR-
B O T ( <*54 ) B O U
EOT ARGO, a kind of faufage, made with the eggs
and blood of the fea-mullet, a large filh common in
the Mediterranean. The bell: kind comes from Tunis
in Barbary : It muftbe chofen dry and reddifh. The
people of Provence ufe a great deal of it, the com¬
mon way of eating it being with olive oil and lemon
juice. There is alfo a great confumption of botargo
throughout all the Levant.
Botargo pays on importation a-j^d. the pound;
whereof 2Ts^d. is repaid on exportation.
BOTATRISSA, in ichthyology, a fynonime of a fpe-
cies of gadus. See Gadus.
BOTE, in our old law books, fignifies recompence or a-
mends : Thus man-bote, is a compenfation for a man
{lain.
There are likewife houfe-bote and plough-bote, pri¬
vileges to tenants, of cutting wood for making ploughs,
repairing tenements, and likewife for fuel.
BOTELESS, or Bootless, is when an offender was
faid to be without emendation, when no favour can ac¬
quit him ; as in the cafe of facrilege.
BOTHNIA, the name of two provinces in Sweden, di-
ftinguilhed by the epithets eaft and weft, and lying
on each fide the Bothnic gulf, which takes its name
from them.
BOTRYTIS, in botany, a fynonime of a fpecies of mu-
cqr. See Mu cor.
BOTTLE, a veflel proper to contain liquors, made of
leather, glafs, or ftone. There are bottles of boiled
leather, which are made and fold by the cafe-makers.
Thofe among the ancient Hebrews were generally
made of goat fkin, with the hair on the infide, well
pitched and fewed together; the mouth of the bottle
was through the animal’s paw that, furnifhed the mat¬
ter of it.
There are now in ufe bottles of fine glafs which are
commonly covered with orier, and others of thick
glafs which are not covered. Formerly all thofe bot¬
tles made in France held exa&ly a pint Paris meafure
(or about a quart of our Englifh wine meafure); but
fince the tavern-keepers fell moft of their wine in fuch
bottles, norwithftandinganordonnance to the contrary,
that one would think the glaffmakers had entered into
an agreement with them not to make any bottles that
hold the full meafure, there are none but what hold
lefs, and fbme confiderably fo. See Glass-ma¬
king.
In commerce, bottles of earth or ftone pay 1 i-^d.
each dozen, on importation; whereof lO^yd is re¬
paid on exporting them. Glafs bottles covered with
wicker, pay 6 s. 7^0^. the dozen; whereof 6 s.
a-rj^d. is repaid on exporting them. Glafs bottles
covered'with leather, pay il. 9 s. 1 i-^^d. the do¬
zen; whereof 11. 7s. lo^d. is repaid on export¬
ing them. Glafs bottles uncovered, pay is y-^d.
the dozen ; 1 s. 4T7^d. being repaid on exporting
them. Bottles made of flint-glafs, pay 8 d. for each
pound weight; and thofe made of green glafs, only
2 d. for each pound weight. Bottles made of wood,
called fucking-bottles, pay by the grofs, or twelve do¬
zen, is. n-i^-d; whereof 1 s. 8TVsd. is repaid on
exporting them.
BOTTOM, in a general fenfe, denotes the loweft part
of a thing, in contradiftinftion to the top, or upper-
moft part.
Bottom, in navigation, is ufed to denote as well the
channel of rivers and harbours, as the body or hull of
a fhip : Thus, in the former fenfe, we fay, a gravelly
bottom, clayey bottom, fandy bottom, <bc. and in
the latter fenfe, a Britifti bottom, a Dutch bottom, <bc.
By ftatute, certain commodities imported in foreign
bottoms pay a duty called petty cuftoms, over and
above what they are liable to if imported in Britdh
bottoms.
BOTTOMRY, in commerce, a marine contract for the
borrowing of money upon the keel or bottom of a fliip,
that is to fay, when the mafter of a fhip binds the
{hip itfelf, that if the money be not paid by the time
appointed, the creditor fhall have the faid fhip.
Bottomry is alfo whereaperfon lends money to a mer¬
chant, who wants it in traffic, and the lender is to be
■paid a greater fum at the return of the {hip, {landing
to the hazard of the voyage. On which account,
though the intereft be greater than what the law com¬
monly allows, yet it is not ufury, becaufe the money
being furnifhed at the lender’s hazard, if the ffiip pe-
rifhes, he ffiares in the lofs.
BOTTONY A crofs bottony, in heraldry, terminates
at each end in three buds, knots or buttons, refem-
bling, in fome meafure, the three-leaved grafs; on
which account Segoing, in his Trefor Heraldique,
terms it croix trefflre. It is the badge of the order of
St Maurice. See Plate LI. fig. 17.
BOTWAR, a town of Wirtemburg, in the circle of
Swabia in Germany, fituated about fifteen miles fouth-
eaft of Hailbron; E. long. 90 15', and N. lat. 490.
BOTZEN, a very beautiful town of Germany, in the
Tyrolefe.
BOTZENBOURG, a town of Germany, fituated upon
the Elbe, in the duchy of Mecklenburg, in 11 0 23'
E. long, and 530 34' N. lat.
BOVA, a town of the kingdom of Naples in Italy, a-
bout twenty miles fouth eaft of Reggio: E. long. 160
15', and N. lat. 38° 20'.
BOUGH AIN, a fortified town of Hainalt, in the French
Netherlands, about feven miles north of Cambray :
E. long 30 15’, and N. lat. 50° 30'.
BOUCHE of court, the privilege of having meat and
drink at court, fcot free This privilege is fometimes
only extended to bread, beer, and wine; and was an¬
ciently in ufe as well in the houfes of noblemen, as in
the king?s court.
BOUGE, in commerce, a fort of fine, white, and clear
{famine, of which ffiirts are made for moft of the monks,
who ufe none made of linen.
BOUGH denotes much the fame with branch. See
Branch
BOUILLON, a ftrong town with a cafile, about three
leagues from Sedan,’on the river Semoy : It is capi¬
tal of a duchy of the fame name, fituated between the
duchy
B O U ( 655 ) BOW
duchy of Luxetpfrurg and bifhoprickof Liege: E. Ion.
j°, and N. lat. 490 49/.
Bouillon, in the menage, a lump or excrefcence of
fiefh, that grows either upon, or juft by, the frufh,
infomuch that the frufh flioots out, juft like a lump
of flefh, and ptakes the horfe halt; and this we call
the flefh blowing upon the frufh. Menage horfes, that
never wet their feet, are fubjedl to thefe excrefcences,
which make them very lame. See Brush.
BO VINES, a fmall town in the province of Namur, in
the Auftrian Netherlands, about ten miles fouth of
Namur: E. long. 40 jo', and N. lat. 50° 20'.
BOVINO, a fmall city of the Capitonate, in the king¬
dom of Naples, about fixty miles eaft of the city of
Naples : E. long. 160 15\ and N. lat. 410.
BO VISTA, in botany, a fynoniftie of the lycoperdon.
See Lycoperdon.
BOULDER-iw?//, a kind of wall built of round flints
or pebbles, laid in a ftrong mortar, and ufed where
the fea has a beach caft up, or where there are plenty
of flints.
BOULETTE, in the menage. A horfe is called
when the fetlock, or poftern-joint, bends forward,
and cut of its natural fituation ; whether through vi¬
olent riding, or by reafon of being too fhort jointed,
in which cafe the leaf! fatigue will bring it.
BOULOGNE, orBoLOGNE, a port-town of France,
fituated in the province of Picardy, on the Englifti
channel: E. long. i° 30,, and N. lat. 50° 4c/.
BOULTINE, a term which workmen ufe for a moul¬
ding, the convexity of which is juft one fourth of a
circle, being the member next below the plinth in the
Tufcan and Doric capital.
BOUNCE, in ichthyology, the Engiifh name of a fpe-
cies of fqualus. See Sqjjalus.
BOUNDS of lands. See Abuttals.
BOUNTY, in commerce, a premium paid by the go¬
vernment to the exporters of certain Britilh commo¬
dities, as fail-cloth, gold and filver lace, filk ftockings,
filh, corn, <bc.
The happy influence which bounties have on trade
and manufactures is well known: Nor can there be a
more convincing proof of the good intentions of the
government under which we live, than the great care
that is taken to give all poflible encouragement to thofe
who (hall eftablifti, or improve,, any hazardous branch
of trade.
BOURBON, or Mascarenha, an ifland in the Indian
ocean, about one hundred miles eaft of Madagafcar,
and fubjeift to France: E. long. 540, and S. lat. 210.
Bourbon-archebaut,. the capital of the duchy of
Bourbon, in the Lyonois, in France: E. long 30 10V
and N. lat. 46°
Bourbon-lanc y, a town of Burgundy, in France ; in
30 46' E. long, and 46° 33' N. lat
BOURBOURG, otBourborch, a town of the French
Netherlands, about 10 miles fouth-weft of Dunkirk;
in 20 io/ E. long, and jo° 50' N. lat.
BOURDEAUX, the capital of all Guienne and Gaf-
t cony, fituated on the river Garonne, in qcc W. long,
and 440 50' N. lat.
BOURDINES, a town of the Auftrian Netherlands, to
miles north-eaft of Namur; in 50 E. long, and jo° 35'
N. lat.
BOURDONE'E, in heraldry, the fame with pomee.
See Pome'e.
BOURG, the capital of the ifland of Cayenne, a French
colony on the coaft of Guiana, in South America ; in
520 W. long, and 50 N. lat.
BOURG-en-bress. the capital of Brefle, in the pro¬
vince of Burgundy, in France, 36 miles W. of Ge¬
neva, and 32 north of Lyons; in 50 5' E. long. 46°
20 N. lat.
Bourg-sur-mer, a town of Guienne, in France, 15
miles north of Bourdeaux, in 30 W. long.
BOURGES, the capital of the territory of Berry, in the
Orleanois, in France, fituated about 50 miles fouth-
eaft of Orleans; in 20 30' W. long, and 47° id N.
lat.
BOURGET, a town of Savoy, fix miles north of Cham-
berry; 50 35' E. long, and 450 45'. N. lat.
BOURIGNONISTS, the name of a fed among the Low
Country Proteftants, being fuch as follow the dodrine
of Antoinette Bourignon, a native of Lifle, an apo-
ftateof the Roman Catholic religion.
The principles of this fed bear a very near refem-
femblance to thofe of the Quietifts or Quakers.
BOURO, an ifland in the Indian Ocean, fubjed to the
Dutch; E long. 1240, and S. lat. 3° go'.
BOUT, in the manege. A horfe is faid to be a-bout,
when he is overdone, and quite fpent with fatigue.
BOUTANT, or Arch-boutant, in architedure, an
arch, or part of an arch, abutting againft the reins of a
vault to prevent its giving way.
A />/7/ar Bout ant isalarge chain or pile of ftone, made
to fupport a wall, terrace, or vault.
BOUTE', in the menage. A horfe is called boute, when
his legs are in a ftraight line from the knee to the
coronet: Short-jointed horfes are apt to be boute; and,
on the other hand, long-jointed horfes are not.
BOUTON, an ifland in the Indian Ocean : E. long, 1210 '
30', and lying between 40 and 50 S. lat.
BOUVILLON, a city of Luxemburg, in the Auftrian -
Netherlands, about 40 miles weft of Luxemburg; E,,
long. 30 andN. lat. 490 550.
BOW, a weapon of offence made of fteel, wood, horn,
or other elaftic fubftances, whichj after being bent by
means of a (bring faftened to its two ends, in returning
to its natural ftate, throws-out an arrow with prodi¬
gious force.
The ufe of the bow is, without all doubt, of the
earlieft antiquity. It has likewife been the moft uni-
verfal of all weapons, having obtained amongft the
moft barbarous and remote people, who,had the leaft
communication with the reft of mankind.
The figure of the bow is pretty much the fame in
all countries, where it has been ufed; for it has ge¬
nerally two inflexions or. bendings, between which,
in the place where the arrow is drawn, is a right
line. The Grecian bow was in the fhape of a s , of,
which form we meet with many, and, generally adorn¬
ed with gold or filver. The Scythian bow was di-
ftitiguiihed,
BOW ( 656 ) BOW
ftinguiflied from the bows of Greece and other nations,
by its incurvation, which was fo great, as-to form an
half moon or femicircle. The matter of which bows
were made, as well as their fize, differed in different
countries. The Perfians had very great bows made of
reeds; and the Indians hadalfo, not only arrows, but
bows made of the reeds or canes of that country ; the
Lycian bows were made of the cornel tree; and thofe
of the ^Ethiopians, which furpaiTed ail others in mag¬
nitude,., were made of the palm-tree.
Though it does not appear, that the Romans made
ufe of bows in the infancy of their republic, yet they
afterwards admitted them as holtile weapons, and em¬
ployed auxiliary archers in all their wars.
In drawing the bow, the primitive Grecians did not
pull back their hand towards their right ear, according to
thefafhion of modern ages, and of the ancient Perfians,
but, placing their bow diredtly before them, returned
their hand upon their right bread:. This was alfo the
cuHorn of the Amazons.
The bow is a weapon of offence amongfl the inha¬
bitants of Afia, Africa, and America, at this day; and in
Europe, before the invention of fire-arms, a part of the
infantry were armed with bows. LewisXI. firft abolifh-
ed the ufe of them in France, introducing, in their place,
the halbard, pike, and broad fword. The long bow was
formerly in great vogue in England, and many laws
were made to encourage the ufe of it. The parliament
under Henry Vll. complained of the difufe of long
bows, heretofore the fafeguard and defence of this
kingdom, and the dread and terror of its enemies.
Bow i$ alfo an inftrument formerly ufed at fea for taking
the fun’s altitude; confiding of a large arch of ninety
degrees graduated, a drank or daff, a fhade vane, a
fight vane, and an horizon vane. It is now out of ufe.
Bow, among builders, a beam of wood or brafs, with
three long fcrews, that diredt a lath of wood or
deel to any arch; chiefly ufed in drawing draughts of
drips, and projections of the fphere; or where-ever it
is requifite to draw large arches.
Bow, in mufic, a fmall machine, which, being drawn
over the drings of a mufical indrument, makes it re¬
found. It is compofed of a fmall dick, to which are
fadened eighty or an hundred horfe-hairs, and a fcrew
which ferves to give thefe hairs the proper tenfion. In
order that the bow may touch the drings brifldy, it is
ufual to.rub the hairs with rofin.
Bow, among artificers, an indrument fo called from its
figure; in ufe among gunfmiths, lockfmiths, watch¬
makers, fcc. for making a drill go. Among turners,
it is the name of that pole fixed to the ceiling, to
which they faden the cord that whirls round the piece
to be turned.
Bow-staves, imported from the Britilh plantations, are
free; if from Ireland, Afia, or Africa, they pay 15 s.
4-ns%d. for every 120; and if from any other coun¬
try, 11. 2*s. iot8o%A. for the fame number.
Bows of a fuddle are two pieces of wood laid archwife
to receive the upper part of a horfe’s back, to give the
faddle its due form, and to keep it tight.
The fore-bow, which fudains the pommel, is com¬
pofed of the withers, the breads, the points or toes,
and the corking, SccWithers, <bc.
The hind-bow bears the troufequin or quilted roll.
The bows are covered with finews, that is, with bulls
pizzels beaten, and fo run all over the bows to make
them dronger. Then they are drengthened with
bands of iron to keep them tight, and, on the lower
fide, are nailed on the faddle-draps, with which they
make fad the girths.
Bow of a /hip, that part which begins at the loof, and
compafling ends of the dem, and ends at the dern-
mod part of the fore-cadle.
If a fliip have a broad round bow, they call it a bold
bow. If fhe has a narrow thin bow, they fay die has
a lean bow.
Bow-line. See Bowling. '
Bow-pieces are the pieces.of ordinance at the bow of
a (hip.
Rain-vow. See Rain-bow, and Optics.
Bow-bearer, an inferior officer of the fored, who is
fworn to make inquifition of all trefpafies againtt vert
or venifon, and to attack oflfenders.
BOWE, a market-town of Devonfhire, about twelve
miles north-wed of Exeter; W. long. 40, and N.
lat. 50° 45'. . .
BOWELS, in anatomy, the fame with intedines. See
p. 2S9» &c-
BOWER, in gardening, a place under covert of trees,
differing only from an arbour, as being round or fquare,
and made with a kind of dome or ceiling at top;
whereas the arbour is always built long and arched.
Bower, in the fea-language, the name of an anchor
carried at the bow of a ffiip. There are generally two
bowers, called fird and fecond, great and little, or
bed and fmall bower. See Anchor.
BOWESS, or Bowet, in falconry, a young hawk,
when fhe draws any thing out of her ned, and covets
to clamber on the boughs.
BOWGE, orBoucHEc/' court. See Bouche.
BOWL denotes either a ball of wood, for the ufe of
bowling; or a veffel of capacity, wherein to hold li¬
quors.
Bowls and buckets of wood, imported, pay a duty
°f p-rgVI. tb® dozen; whereof S-j^d. is repaid on
exporting them.
BOWLDER-y?ff»^i, fmall dones, of a roundifh figure,
and no determinate fize, found on the fea-ffiore and
banks or rather channels of rivers.
BOWLING, the art of playing at bowls. The fird
thing to be obferved in bowling is, the right chufing
your bowl, which mud be fuitable to the ground you
defign to run on. Thus, for clofe alleys, the flat
bowl is the bed ; for open grounds of advantage, the
round biaffed bowl; and for plain and level fwards,
the bowl that is as round as a ball. The next is to
chufe your ground; and, ladly, to didinguiffi the ri-
fings, fallings, and advantages of the places where you
bowl.
Bowling, or Bow-line, in a (hip, a rope made faft
to the leech or middle part of the outfide of the fail:
it is fadened by two, three, or four ropes, like a crow’sv
foot.
BOX ( 657 ) BRA
foot, to as many parts of the fail; only the mizen
bow-line is faftened to the lower end of the yard. This
rope belongs to all fails, except the fprit-fail and
fprit top-fail. The ufe of the bow-line is to make the
fails Hand (harp or clofe, or by a wind.
Sharp the bow-line, is hale it taught, Or pull it
hard. Hale up the bow-line, that is, pull it harder
forward on. Check or eafe, or run up the bow-line,
that is, let it be more flack.
BowlisG-bridles, are the ropes by which the bow line
is faftened to the leech of the fail.
Bowling-/1«o/, a knot that will not flip, by which the
bow-line bridle is faftened to the cringles.
BowLiNG-^reew, a kind of parterre, laid with fine turf,
defigned for the exercife of bowling. See Bowling.
BOW-K<f/, among fportfmen. See Net.
How-faw, among artificers. See Saw.
BOWSE, in the fea-language, fignifies as much as to
hale or pull. Thus bowling upon a tack, is haling
upon a tack. Bowfe away, that is, pull away all to¬
gether.
Bow sprit, or Bolt-sprit, a kind of mart, refting
flopewife on the head of the main ftern, and having
its lower end faftened to the partners of the fore-maft,
and farther fupported by the fore-ftay. It carries the
fprit-fail, fprit top-fail, and jak-ftaff; and its length
is ufually the fame with that of the fore-maft.
Bow-sprit-ladder. See Ladder.
BOWYERS, artificers whofe employment or occupa¬
tion it is to make bows. There is a company of bow-
yers in the city of London, firft incorporated in 1623.
BOX, in its moft common acceptation, denotes a fmall
cheft or coffer for holding things.
Fire-boxes, or tinder-boxes, pay, on importation,
a duty of 3 s. to-r^d. the grofs; whereof 3 s. 4^d.
is repaid on exportation. Wooden money-boxes pay
3 s> 7-rloff the grofs; whereof 3 s. 2TSoc^- 's repaid
on exportation. Neft-boxes pay 11 s. the
grofs; whereof 10s. i|d. is repaid. Pepper-boxes
pay 4 s. 3TVt>d.; whereof 3 s. 9-/^. is repaid.
French boxes, for marmalade or jelly, pay each dozen
3s. t^VI. ; whereof is. 9i'!5s6d. is repaid. Sand
boxes pay 3 s. ioTl^d. the grofs; whereof 3s. 44d.
is repaid. Snuff-boxes, if of wood, pay 2 s. 4115^.
the dozen ; whereof 2 s. *s rePaid : if of horn,
they pay 4s. 9tto^- t^e dozen; 4s. 34V5d. being
drawn back : if of ivory or tortoife-lhell, they pay
q s. 6T%%<i. the dozen; whereof 8 s. y-^d. is drawn
back. Soap-boxes pay 7 s. 8-roV^* t^e ihock, con¬
taining fixty boxes. Spice-boxes pay is. i-r^d. the
dozen. Tobacco-boxes, pay 5 s. 9-r^jd. the grofs.
Touch-boxes, covered with leather, pay only 6-,^d.
the dozen ; but if the leather be the moft: valuable part,
they pay 6 s. 1 i-^d. for every 20 s. value upon oath :
if covered with velvet, they pay 2 s. xo-n/gd. the do¬
zen : and if of iron, or other metal gilt, they pay 3 s.
xov^jd. the dozen : in all which cales, a proportion-
able draw-back is allowed.
Box is alfo ufed for an uncertain quantity or meafure:
thus a box of quickfilver contains from one to two
"Vol• I. Numb. 28. 3
hundred weight; a box of prunellas, only 14 pounds i
a box of rings for keys, two grofs, ebc.
Box of a plough, the crofs-piece in the head of a plough,
which fupports the two crow-ftaves. See Plough.
Box, or Box tree, in botany, the Englifti name of
the buxus. See Buxus.
BOXBERG, a town of Germany in Franconia, belong¬
ing to the eleftor palatine.
BOXTEL, a town of Dutch Brabant, fituated on the
river Bommel, about eight miles fouth of Boifleduc,
in j° 16' E;. long, and y t° 30' N. lat.
BOXTHUDE, a town of the duchy of Bremen, in
Germany, about fifteen miles weft of Hamburgh, and
fubjeft to the eletfor of Hanover; E. long. 90 id',
and N. lat. 530 yc/.
BOYAR, a term ufed for a grandee of Ruflia and Tran-
fylvania.
Becman fays, that the boyars are the upper nobi¬
lity ; and adds, that the Czar of Mufcovy, in his di¬
plomas, names the boyars before the waywodes. See
Waywode.
BOYAU, in fortification, a ditch Covered with a para¬
pet, which ferves as a communication between two
trenches. It runs parallel to the works of the body
of the place, and ferves as a line of contravallation,
not only to hinder the fallies of the befieged, but alfo
to fccure the miners. But when it is a particular cut
that runs from the trenches to cover fome fpot of
ground, it is drawn fo as not to be enfiladed, or fcour-
ed by the (hot from the town.
BOYER, a fmall veflel of burden, refembling a fmack,
with only one maft and a bolt-fprit.
BOYES, idolatrous priefts among the favages of Flo¬
rida.
Every prieft attends a particular idol, and the na¬
tives addrefs themfelves to the prieft of that idol to
which they intend to pay their devotion.
The idol is invoked in hymns, and his ufual offering
is the fmoke of tobacco.
BOYNE, a river of Ireland, which, taking its rife in
Queen’s county, in the province of Leinfter, runs
north-eaft by Trim and Cavan, and falls into the Irifli
channel, a little below Drogheda.
BOZOLO, a town of the duchy of Mantua, about 12
miles fcuth-weft of that city; E. long. 11°, and N.
lat. 440 4o\
B QUADRO, Quadrato, or Durale, in muftc,
called by the French b quarre, from its figure |$|. This
is what we call B natural or fharp, in diftindtion to B
mol or flat. See Flat, and Sharp.
If the flat Iq be placed before a note in the tho¬
rough bafs, it intimates, that its third is to be minor ;
and if placed with any cipher over a note in the bafs,
as ^6, or (9 y, <bc, it denotes, that the fifth or fixth
thereto are to be flat. But if the quadro [>] be pla¬
ced over any note, or with a cipher, in the thorough
bafs, it has the contrary effeift; for thereby the note
or interval thereto is raifed to its natural order.
BRABANT, a large province of the Netherlands, lying
eaftward of Flanders; the greater part of it is fubjeft.
f 8 D to
BRA ( 658 ) BRA
. to the houfe of Auflria, the capital Bruflels; and the
reft to the Dutch, their capital Breda.
BRABEJUM, in botany, a genus of the tetrandria mo-
nogynia clafs. The corolla is below the fruit, and
confifts of four petals. It has no calix ; the fruit is a
hairy drupe, of an oval figure. There is only
one fpecies, viz. the ftellatiferum, a native of JE-
thiopia.
BRABEUTES, or Brabeuta, in antiquity, an offi¬
cer among the Greeks, who prefided at the public
games, and decided controverfies that happened among
the antagonifts in the gymnallical exercifes. The
number of brabeutae was not fixed; fometimes there
was only one, but more commonly they amounted to
nine or ten.
BRACCIANO, a town of St Peter’s patrimony,, about
twelve miles north of Rome, fituated on the weft fide
. of a lake, to which it gives name; E. long. 130, and
N. lat. 420.
BR ACE is commonly taken for a couple or pair, and ap¬
plied by huntfmen to feveral beafts of game, as a brace
of bucks, foxes, hares, 6-c.
Brace, or Bras se, is alfo a foreign meafure, anfwer-
ing to our fathom. See Fathom.
Brace, in archite&ure, a piece of timber framed in with
bevil joints, the ufe of which is to keep the building
from fwerving either way. When the brace is fra¬
med into the kinglefies or principal rafters, it is by
fome called a ftrut.
Braces, in the fea-langu-age, are ropes belonging to all
the yards of a ftiip, except the mizen, two to each
yard, reeved through blocks that are faftened to pen¬
nants, feized to the yard-arms. Their ufe is either
to fquare, or traverfe the yards. Hence to brace the
yard, is to bring it to either fide. All braces come
aftward onr as the main brace comes to the poop,
the main-top-fail brace comes to the mizen-top, and
thence to the main ffirouds: The fore and fore-top-
fail braces come down by the main and main-top-lail
flays, and fo of the reft. But the mizen-bowline
ferves to brace to the yard, and the crofs-jack braces
are brought forwards to the main ffirouds, when the
ffiip fails clofe by a wind.
BRACED, in heraldry, a term for the intermingling
three cheoronels. See Plate LI. fig 18.
BRACELET, an ornament worn on the wrift, much
ufed among the ancients: It was made of different ma¬
terials, and in different faffiions, according to the age
and quality of the wearer.
Bracelets are ftill worn by the favages of Africa,
who are fo exceflively fond of them, as to give the
richeft commodities, and even their fathers, wives,
and children, in exchange for thofe made of no richer
materials than ffiells, glafs, beads, and the like
Bracelets of glafs pay. 3 s. d. the fmall
grofs, containing twelve bundles or dickers; and, if of
the French manufaflure, they pay 4s. i-rVtfd- for the
fame quantity: A proportionable drawback is allowed
in each cafe.
BRACHIiEUS, in anatomy, the name of a mufcle.
See p. 197,.
CcraM-BRACHIALIS, in anatomy, the name of a
mufcle. See p. 196.
BRACHIONUS, in zoology. SeeLABEtLA.
BRACHIUM, or Arm, in anatomy, one of the fupe-
rior extremities of the human body, comprehending
the Scapula, the Os humeri, the Cubit, and
the Hand. See thefe articles.
BRACHMINS, a fedt of Indian philofophers known
to the ancient Greeks by the name of Gymnofephijis.
The ancient brachmins lived upon herbs and pulfe, and
abftained from every thing that had life in it. They
lived in fplitude without matrimony, and without pro¬
perty : and they wiffied ardently for death, confidering
life only as a burden. The modern brachmans make
. up one of the cafts or tribes of the banians. They
are the pr efts of that people, and perform their office
of praying and reading the law, with feveral mimical
geftures, and a kind of quavering voice. They believe,
that, in the beginning, nothing but God and the wa¬
ter exifted, and that the fupreme Being, defirous to
create the world, caufed the leaf of a tree, in the
ffiape of a child playing with its great toe in its mouth;
to float on the water. From its navel there ifi’ued out
a flower, whence Brama drew his original, who was
intruded by God with the creation of the world, and
prefides over it with an abfolute fway. They make
no diftindtion between the fouls of men and brutes, but
fay the dignity of the human foul confifts in being pla¬
ced in a better body, and having more room to dif-
play its faculties. They allow of rewards and punifli-
ments after this life; and have fo great a veneration
for cows, that they look on themfelves as bleifed, if
they can but die with the tail of one of them in their
hand. They have preferved fome noble fragments of
the knowledge of the ancient brachmans They are
fldlful arithmeticians, and calculate, with great exadt-
nefs, eclipfes of the fun and moon. They are remark¬
able for their religious aufterities. One of them has
been known to make a vow, to wear about his neck a
heavy colar of iron for a confiderable time : Another
to chain himfelfby the foot to a tree, with a firm re-
folution.to die in that place: And another to walk in
wooden ffioes, ftuck full of nails on the infide. Their
divine worffiip confifts chiefly of proceffions, made in
honour of their deities. They have a college at Ba-
nara, a city feated on the Ganges.
BR ACHYGRAPHY, the art of ffiort-hand writing. See
Short-hand.
BRACHYPTERA, a term, ufed by Willoughby, to de¬
note thofe hawks which have their wings fo Ihort, as
not to reach to the end of the tail: Of this kind are
the gofs hawk, fparrow-hawk,
BRACHYPYRENIA, in the hiftory of foffiis, a genus
of feptanae, with a ffiort roundiffi nucleus. See Sep-
tari/e.
BRACHYTELOSTYLA, in natural hiftory, the name
by which Dr Hill calls thofe cryftals, which are com-
pofed of a ffiort hexang.ular column, terminated at
each end by an hexangular pyramid. See Crystal. .
BRACKET, among carpenters, £}c. a kind of wooden
flay, ferving to fuppprt (helves, and the like.
Brack.-
BRA ( 659 ) B R A
Brackets, in a {hip, the fmall knees, ferving to fup-
■ port the galleries, and commonly carved. Alfo the
timbers that fupport the gratings in the head, are cal¬
led brackets.
Brackets, in gunnery, are the cheeks of the carriage
of a mortar: they are made of ftrong planks of wood,
of almoft a femicircular figure, and bound round with
thick iron plates ; they are fixed to the beds by four
, bolts, which are called bed-bolts; they rife up on
each fide of the mortar, and ferve to keep her at any
elevation, by means of fome ftrong iron bolts, called
, bracket-bolts, which go through thefe cheeks or
brackets.
BRACKLAW, the capital of the palatinate of Brack-
law, in Podolia, in Poland, fituated on the river Bog,
an hundred and ten miles eaft of Kaminec: E. long.
290 20', and N. lat. 48°..
BRACKLEY, a borough-town of Northamptonfhire, a-
bout fifteen miles fouth-weft of Northampton : W. Ion.
i° 15', and N. lat. 520.
It fends two members to parliament.
BRACTEA, in natural hiftory, denotes a fpangle, or
thin flake of any fubflance.
Bractea, in botany. See Floral Leaf.
BR ACTE ARIA, in natural hiiiory, a genus of talcs,
, compofed of fmall plates in form of fpangles, each plate
either being very thin, or fiffile into very thin ones.
Of this genus there are a great many fpecies, called,
from their different colours, mica aurea, or gold-
glimmerand mica argentea, (ilver-glimmer, or cats-
filver, &(?.
BR AD, in geography, a town of Sclavonia, fituated on
the north fide of the river Save, eighteen miles fouth
of Pofega : E. long. 180 4c/, and N. lat. 450 20'.
BRADFIELD, a market-town in Elfex, fourteen miles
north of Chelmsford : E. long. 30Y and N. lat.
' 5i° 54-
BRADFORD, a market-town in Wiltfhire, about nine
miles weft of the Devizes : E. long. 20 40/. and N.
lat. 510 20'.
BRADFORTH, a market town of Yorkfhire, thirty
miles fouth-weft of York: W. long. x° 35', and N.
lat. 53° 40'.
BRADNICH, a market town of Devonfliire, ten miles
north of Exeter: W. long. 30 35', and N. lat.
50° 45'.
BRADS, among artificers, a kind of nails ufed in build-
. ing, which have no fpreading heads, as other nails
have. They are diftinguilhed, by iron-mongersj by
. fix names, as joiner’s-brads, flooring brads, batten-
brads, bill-brads, or quarter heads, &c. Joiner’s-
brads are for hard wainfcot, batten brads are for foft
wainfcot; bill-brads are ufed When a floor is laid in
. hafte, or for {hallow joifts fubjeift to warp. See Nail.
BR4DYPUS, or floth, a genus of quadrupeds be¬
longing to the order of bruta. The chara&ers are
thefe: They have no fore-teeth in either jaw; the
dog-teeth are blunt, folitary, and longer than the
grinders ; they have five grinders on each fide. The
body is covered with hair. There are only two fpe¬
cies of bradyjus, v'z. 1. The tridi&ylis, or American
floth, has a fhort tail, and only three toes on each’
foot It is about the fize of a fox. The body is co¬
vered over with hair of a grey colour ; the face is
naked; the throat is yellowifh ; the fore-feet are longer
than the hind-feet; the claws, which are three on each
foot, are cbmprefied, and very ftrong; and they have
no mammae on the breaft ; they have no external ears,
but only two winding holes This fpecies is a native
of America, and feeds upon the tender leaves of trees,
and particularly the leaves of the cecropia. It never
drinks, and is terrified at rain. It climbs trees with
great eafe; but its motion on the ground is fo flow,
that it can hardly walk fifty paces in a day, and from
this circumftance it is called a Sloth. It makes a moft
difagreeable noife, refembling that of a young cat. See
Plate LIX. fig. 1. 2. The didadtylus, or Ceylon
floth, has two toes on each foot, and no tail: The
1 head is round; the ears are large; and it has two
mamrhae On the breaft: The body is covered with afti-
coloured hair. It has the fame difagreeable cry with
the American floth, and is a native of Ceylon.
BRAG, an ingenious and pleafant game at cards, where
as many may partake as the cards will lupply ; the
eldeft hand dealing three to each perfon at one time,
and turning up the laft card all round. This done,
each gamefter puts down three ftakes, pne for, each
card. The firft flake is won by the beft card turned
up in the dealing round; beginning from the ace, .
king, queen, knave, and fo downwards. When cards
of the fame value are turned up to two or more of the
gamefters,' the eldeft hand gains; but it is to be ob-
ferved, that the ace of diamonds wins, to whatever
hand it be turned up.
The fecond flake is won by what is called the brag,
which confifts in one of the gamefters challenging the
reft to produce cards equal to his : Now it is to be
obferved, that a pair of aces is the beft brag, a pair
of kings the next, and fo on; and a pair of any fort'
wins the ftake from the moft valuable Angle card. In ,
this part confifts the great diverfion- of the game ; for,
: by the artful management of the looks, geftures, and
voice, it frequently happens, that a pair of fives, treys,
or even duces, out-brags a much higher pair, and
even fome pairs royal, to the no fmall merriment of
the compay. The knave of ‘ clubs is here a principal '
favourite, making a pair with any other card in hand,
and with any other two cards a pair royal.
' The third ftake is won by the perfon who firft makes
up the cards in his hand one and thirty ; each digni¬
fied card going for ten, and drawing from the pack, as
ufual in this game.
BRAGA, the capital of the province of Ehtre-minho-
duro, in Portugal, fituated on the river Gavado, 32:
miles north of Porto; W. long. 8° 40Y and N. lat.
41° 20'.
BRAGANZA, a city of the province of Tfalofmontes,
in Portugal, fituated on the river Sabor, in 70 W.
long, and 410 5c/N.'lat.
BRAGGET, a kind of drink made of malt, honey, and
fpices, much ufed in Wales.
BRAIL, or brails, in a {hip, are fmall ropes made
ufe-
BRA f 660 ^ BRA
ufe of to fuil the fails acrafs: They belong only to
the two courfes and the mizen-fail; they are reeved
through the blocks, feized on each fide the ties, and
come down before the fail, being at the very Ikirt
thereof faftened to the cringles ; their ufe is, when the
fail is furled acrofs, to hale up its bunt, that it may
the more eafily be taken up or let fall. Hale up the
biails, or brail up the fail, that is, hale up the fail, in
order to be furled or bound clofe to the yard.
BRA [LOW, a town of Podolia, in Poland, fituated on
the river Bog, 40 miles north of Bracklow ; E. long.
290, and N. lat. 48° jo7.
BRAIN, in anatomy. See p. 283, &c.
Brain le compte, a town of Hainalt, in the Auftrian
Netherlands, fifteen miles fouth-eafl: of Bruffels, and
nine north-eaft of Mons; E. long. 40, and N. lat.
50° 40'.
BRAINTREE, a market-town of Efiex, 12 miles north
of Chelmsford; E long. 35', and N. lat. ji°'5o'.
BRAKE denotes female fern, or the place where it
grows : Alfo a (harp bit or fnaffle for horfes; and a
baker’s kneading trough: Alfo an inftrument with
teeth, to bruife flax or hemp.
BRAKEL, a town of the bifhopric of Paderborn, in the
circle of Weltphalia, in Germany; E. long. 90, and
N. lat. ? 10 40'.
BRALROENS, one of the Sunda-iflands, lying north-
eafl: of Java, in 40 30' N. lat.
BRAMA, in ichthyology, the trivial name of a fpecies
of cyprinus. See Cyprinus.
BR AMANT, a town of Savoy, 35 miles north-well of
Turin; E. long. 6° 45', and N. lat. 45 °.
BRAMBER, a borough-town of Suflex, about 16 miles
fouth-eafl of Grinded; W. long. 15', and N. lat.
50° 50 . It fends two members to parliament.
BR AMBLE, or Bramlle bush, in botany, the Eng-
lifh name of the rubus. See Rubus.
Bramble-net, otherwife called hallier, is a net to catch
birds in, of feveral fizes; the great malhes mud be
four inches fqaure; thofe of the lead fize are three or
four inches fquare; and thofe of the bigged five. In
the depth, they fliould not be above three or four
inches ; but as for the length, they may be enlarged at
pleafure ; the fliorted being eigtheen feet long.
Bramble, or Brambling, in ornithology, the Eng-
lifli name of a fpecies of fringilla. See Fringilla.
BRAMINS, the name of the priefls among the idola¬
trous Indians; the fucceflbrs of the ancient brachmans.
See Brachmans.
BR AMPORE, a town of the Hither Peninfula of India ;
E. long. 770, andN. lat. 2t° 30'.
BRAMPTON, a market-town of Cumberland, about
fix miles north-ead of Carlifle ; W. long. 20 40', and
N. lat. 540 5c/.
BR AM LARD, a market-town of Herefordlhire, about
12 miles north-ead of Hereford; W. long. 20 3c/,
and N. lat. 520 20'.
BRAN, the Ikins or hulks of corn, efpecially wheat
ground, feparated from the flour by a fieve or boulter:
It is of wheat-bran that darch-makers make their
ftarch. The dyers reckon bran among the not-co-
lourirg drugs, and ufe it for making, what they calj,
t/?e four ’maters, with which they prepare their feve¬
ral dyes.
BRANCH, in botany, an arm of a tree, or a part,
which, fprouting out from the trunk, helps to form
the head or crown thereof.
Branches of a bridle, in the manege, are two pieces of
iron bended, which, in the interval, between the one
and the other, bear the bit-mouth, the crofs-chains,
and the curb; fo that on one end they anfwer to the
bead-flail, and on the other to the reins, in order to
keep the horfe’s head in fubjeftion. With regard to
their form and Aru&ure, branches are either drait,
in form of a pidol, for young horfes to form their
mouth; or, after the condable of France’s falhion,
proper for a horfe that carries his head well. Some
are in form of a gigot or leg, which will prevent horfes
from carrying too low: Some in form of a bent knee,
contrived for horfes that arm themfelves againd the
operation of the bit; and others after the French fa¬
lhion, which is hardly about -$- of an inch at the fevile
hole, and kneed 1J inch at the jarret or ham.
It is to be obferved, 1. That the farther the branch
is from an horfe’s neck, the more effedt it will have.
2. That Ihort branches, cater is paribus, are ruder,
and their effedfs more fudden, than thofe of longer. 3.
That the branch is to be proportioned to the length
of a horfe’s neck; and one may fooner err in chuling
one too Ihort than too long.
Branches of ogives, in architedlure, are the arches of
Gothic vaults. Thefe arches traverfing from one
angle to another diagonal wife, form a crofs between
the other arches, which make the fides of the fquare,
of which the arches are diagonals.
Branch of a trench. See Boyau.
Branch of a mine. See Gallery.
Branch-stand, with falconers, a term ufed to fignify
the making a hawk leap from tree to tree, till the dog
fprings the game.
BRANCHER, among fportfmen, a young hawk, newly
taken out of the nefl, that can hop from bough to
bough.
BRANCHIjE, or gills, in the anatomy of filhes, the
parts correlponding to the lungs of land-animals, by
which filhes take in and throw out again a certain
quantity of water, impregnated with air. All filhes,
except the cetaceous ones and the petromyzum, are
furnilhed with thefe organs of refpiration ; which are
always eight in number, four on each fide the throat.
That next the heart is always the lead, the red in-
creafing in order as they ftand near the head of the
filh.
Each of thefe gills is compofed of a bony lamina,
in form of a femicircle, for the moll part; and on its
convex fide Aand the leaves or lamellae, like fo ma¬
ny fickjes. The whole convex part of the lamellae is
befet with hairs, which are longed near the bafe, and
decreafe gradually as they approach towards the point.
There are alfo hairs on the concave fide of the lamel¬
lae, but {hotter than the others, and continued only to
its middle.
The
BRA (6
The convex fide of one lamina is fitted into' the
concave fide of the next fupetior one; and all of them
are connected together by means of a membrane,
which reaches from their bafe half-way their height,
where it grows thicker, and in fome meafure refem-
bles a rope. The reft of the lamina is free, and ter¬
minates in a very fine and flexible point.
As to the ufe of thefe gills, they feem to be defign-
ed to receive the blood protruded from the heart into
the aorta, and convey it into the extremities of the
lamellae ; from whence being returned by veins, it is
diftributed over the body of the fifti.
BRANCHIARUM foramina, apertures of the gills. In
moft fifties there is only one aperture ; in the cartila¬
ginous ones, thefe apertures are ten in number, five on
each fide ; and in the petromyzon or lamprey, there
are no lefs than fourteen of thefe apertures, feven on
each fide.
As to the cetacious fifties, they have no aperture of
this kind; and the reafon feems to be, becaufe they
are furniftied with lungs.
BRANCHIDvE, in Grecian antiquity, priefts of the
temple of Apollo, which was at Dydimus in Ionia, a
province of leffer Afia, towards the iEgean fea, upon
the frontiers of Caria. They opened to Xerxes the
. temple of Apollo, the riches whereof he took away.
After which, thinking it unfafe to ftay in Greece, they
fled to Sogdiana, on the other fide of the Cafpian
fea, upon the frontiers of Perfia, where they built a
city, called by their own name; but they did not e-
fcape the punifhment of their crime : For Alexander
the Great having conquered Darius king of Perfia, and
being informed of their treachery, put them all to the
fword, and razed their city, thus puniftiing the impiety
of the fathers in their pofterity.
BRANCHON, a town of the Auftrian Netherlands, a-
bout eight miles north of Namur: E. long. 40 5c/,
and N. lat. jo° ^1'.
BRANCHUS, a defluxion of humours upon the fauces,
being a fpecies of catarrh.
BRANDEIS, a town of Bohemia, fituated on the river
Elbe, ten miles north-eaft of Prague: E. long. 140
25', N. lat. 50° 15'.
BRANDENBURG, a city of the marquifate of Bran¬
denburg in Germany, fituated on the river Havel,
twenty-fix miles weft of Berlin: E. long. 130, N.
lat. 520 25'.
It was once the capital of Brandenburg; but is now
on the decline, fince Berlin fupplanted it.
BRANDON, a market-town of Suffolk, ten miles north
of Bury: E. long. 45', N. lat. 520 3c/.
It gives the title of duke to his grace the duke of
Hamilton.
BRANDRITH, a trevet, or other iron utenfil, to fet
a veflel on over the fire.
BRANDY, a fpirituoas and inflammable liquor, ex-
tradted from wine and other liquors, by diftillation.
See Chemistry, Of fpirituous fermentation, and
difilling.
Wine-brandy, -made in France, is efteemed the. heft
in Europe. They make it where-ever they make wine,
Vol. I. No. 28. 3
) BRA
and for that purpofe ufe wine that is pricked rather
than good wine. The chief brandies for foreign
trade, and thofe accounted beft, are the brandies of
Bourdeaux, Rochelle, Cogniac, Charenton, the ifle
of Rhe, Orleans, the county of Blafois, Poidou,
Touraine, Anjou, Nantes, Burgundy, and Cham¬
paign.
BRANLIN, injchthyology, a fpecies of falmon, with
feveral tranfverfe black ftreaks, refembling the impref-
fion of fo many fingers.
BRANSKA, a town of Tranfilvania, fituated on the ri¬
ver Marifh : E. long. 230 \f, and N. lat. 46°.
BRASEM, in ichthyology, a fifh otherwife called aca-
ra-peba.
BRASIDIA, an anniverfary folemnity at Sparta, in me¬
mory of Brafidas, a Lacedaemonian captain, famous for
his atchievments at Methone, Pylos, and Amphipolis.
It was celebrated with facrifioes and games, wherein
none were permitted to contend, but free-born Spar¬
tans. Whoever negleded to be prefent at the folem¬
nity was fined.
BRASIL, or Brazil, a large maritime country of
South America, lying between 350 and 6o° W. Ion.
and between the equator and 35° S. lat.
It is bounded by the Atlantic ocean and the river
Amazon on the north, by the fame ocean on the eaft,
by the river of Plate on the fouth, and by Paraguay
on the weft ; being computed to be 2500 miles in
length, and 700 miles in breadth. The Portuguefe
have now the foie dominion of this extenfive country,
where, befides fugar and tobacco, there are rich mines
of gold and diamonds ; from whence his Portuguefe
majefty draws a very confiderable revenue.
Brasil-tucui/, or Brazil-wiW, an American wood of
a red colour, and very heavy. It is denominated va-
rioufly, according to the places from whence it is
brought: Thus we have brafil from Fernambuco, Ja¬
pan, Lamon, &c.
The brafil-tree ordinarily grows in dry barren
places, and even. in the cliffs of rocks: It is very
thick and large, ufually crooked and knotty: Its
flowers, which are of a beautiful red, exhale a very
agreeable fmell.
Though the tree be very thick, it is covered with
fo grofs a bark, that when the favages have taken it
off, the wood or trunk, which was before the thick-
nefs of a man, is fcarce left equal to that of his leg.
This wood muft be chofen in thick pieces, dofe,
found, without any bark on it, and fuch as, upon
fplitting, of pale becomes reddifh, and, when chewed,
has a faccharine tafte. It is much ufed in turned
work, and takes a good polifh : But its chief ufe is in
dying, where it ferves for a red colour: It is a fpuri-
ous colour, however, that it gives, and eafily evapo¬
rates and fades; nor is the wood to be ufed without
alum and tartar. From' the Brafil of Fernambuco, is
drawn a kind of carmine, by means of acids: There
is alfo a liquid lacca made of it, for miniature.
BRASLAW, the capital of a palatinate of the fame
name, in the province of Lithuania in Poland: E. Ion.
26°, N. lat. 56° 2o\
t 8 E BRASS,
BRA ( 662 ) B R E
BRASS, or, as the French call it, copper, is a
faftitious metal, made of copper and ziac, or lapis ca-
laminaris. See Chemistry, Of zinc.
Corinthian Brass has been famous in antiquity, and
is a mixture of gold, lilver, and copper. L. Mum-
mius having facked and burnt the city of Corinth, 146
years before Chrift, it is faid this metal was formed
from the immenfe quantities of gold, filver and copper
wherewith that city abounded, thus melted and run to¬
gether by the violence of the conflagration.
Brass-co/sar, one prepared by the braziers and colpur-
men to imitate brafs. There are two forts of it, the
red brafs, or bronze, and the yellow or gilt brafs :
The latter is made only of copper-filings, the fmalleft
and brightelt that can be found ; with the former they
mix fome red ochre, finely pulverized; they are both
ufed with varnifh.
BRASSE, in ichthyology, the Englilh name of the per-
ca lucioperca. See Perca.
BRASSICA, or Cabbage, in botany, a genus of the
tetradynamia filiquola ciafs. The calix is ereft and
connivent; the feeds are globular; and there is a
neftariferous gland between the piflillum and the fhort
ftamina, and between the calix and the long (lamina.
There are ten fpecies of this plant, mod of which are
excellent pot-herbs, and cultivated in our gardens.
BRASSICAVIT, or Brachicavit, in the menage, is
a horfe whofe fore-legs are naturally bended archwife :
being fo called by way of diftinftion from an arched
horle, whofe legs are bowed by hard labour.
BRAVA, or Tm/><7-BRAVA. See Pareira
BRAULS, Indian cloths with blue and white ftripes.
They are otherwife called turbants, becaufe they
ferve to cover thole ornaments of the head, particu¬
larly on the coaft of Africa.
BRAUNAU, or Branau, a town of Bavaria in Ger¬
many, about twenty five miles fouth-wefl of PafTau.
BRAUNSBURG, a town of Pruflia, fituated on the
Baltic fea, about thirty miles fouth-weft of Koningf-
burg: E. long. 20°, N. lat. 540 15'.
BRAVO, one of the Cape verd iflands: W. long. 25°,
N. lat. 140.
BRAURONIA, in Grecian antiquity, a fefiival in ho¬
nour of Diana, furnamed Brauronia, from its having
been obferved at Brauron, an Athenian borough.
This feftival was celebrated once in five years, be¬
ing managed by ten men, called, in Greek, {jeropoioi'y.
The vidfim offered in facrifice was a goat, and it was
cuftomary for certain men to fing one of Homer’s ili-
ads. The moft remarkable perfons at this folemnity
were young virgins, habited in yellow gowns, and
confecrated to Diana. It was unlawful for any of
them to be above ten, or under five years of age.
BRAWN, the fle/h of a boar fouced or pickled ; for
which end the boar (hoold be old; becaufe the older
he is, the more horny will the brawn be.
The method of preparing brawn is as follows: The
boar being killed, it is the flitches only, without the
legs, that are made brawn ; the bones of which are
so be taken cut, and then the flelh fprinkled with fait,
and kid in a tray, that the blood may drain offThen
it is to be falted a little, and rolled up as hard as pof-
fible. The length of the collar of brawn, fhould be
as much as one fide of the boar will bear; fo that when
rolled up, it will be nine or ten inches diameter.
The collar being thus rolled up, is to be boiled in
a copper, or large kettle, till it is fo tender, that you
can run a ftraw through it; then fet it by, till it is
thorough cold, and put it into the following pickle.
To every gallon of water, put a handful or two of
fait, and as much wheat bran: Boil them together,
then drain the bran as clear as you can from the ii
quor; and when the liquor is quite cold, put the
brawn into it.
BRAY, a town of Champaign in France, about 16 miles
north of Sens: E. long. 30 20', N. lat. 48° 25'.
Bray is alfo the name of a port town of the county of
Wicklow, and province of Leinder, in Ireland ; W.
long. 6° 16', N. lat. 530 i2/.
BRAYLE, among fportfmen, a piece of leather flit to
put upon the hawk’s wing, to tie it up.
BRAZED, in heraldry, a term ferving to defcribe three
cheverons, one clafping another.
BRAZEN, fomething confiding of brafs, or formed out
of it. See Brass.
BRAZIER, an artificer who makes or deals in all kinds
of brafs-ware.
BRAZIL. See Brasil.
BRAZING, the foldering or joining two pieces of iron
together by means of thin plates of brafs, melted be¬
tween the pieces that are to be joined. If the work
be.very fine, as when two leaves of a broken faw are
to be brazed together, they cover it with pulverized
borax, melted with water, that it may incorporate
with the brafs powder, which is added to it: The
piece is then expofed to the fire without touching the
coals, and hesied till the brafs is feen to run.
Brazing is ado the joining.two pieces of iron together
by beating them hot, the one upon the other, which
is ufed for large pieces by farriers, drc.
BRAZZA, a town and ifland on the coaft of Dalmatia,
in the Gulph of Venice; E.long. 180, N. lat. 430.
BREACH, in fortification, a gape made in any part of
the works of a town by the cannon or mines of the be-
fiegers, in order to make an attack upon the place.
7'o make the attack more difficult, the befieged fow
the breach with crow-feet, or flop it with chevaux
de frize.
A practicable breach, is that where the men may
mount and make a lodgement, and ought to be fifteen
or twenty fathoms wide. The befiegers make their
way to it, by covering themfelves with gabions, earth-
bags, <bc.
Breach, in a legal fenft. is where a perfbn breaks
through the condition of a bond or covenant; on an
aCtion upon which, the breach muft be affigned: And
this afiignment muft not be general, but particular ; as,
in an aCtion of covenant for not repairing houfes, it
ought to be affigned particularly what is the want of
reparation ; and in fuch certain manner, that the de¬
fendant may take an ifliie.
BREAD,
B R E ( 663 ) B R E
BREAD, a mafs of dough, kneaded and baked in an
oven. See Baking.
Bread ought to be well kneaded, and feafoned with
a little fait, otherwife it is accounted very unwholefome.
We find bread fometimes made of rye, oats, bar¬
ley, or vetch-flour; but of all others, that prepared
from wheat affords the mod wholefome nourifhment.
In feveral parts of Afia, Africa, and America, they
make bread of maiz-flour; beftdes which, the Ameri¬
cans make bread of the caffava-root. See Cassava.
Some are of opinion, that corn growing in gravelly
and light lands, makes better bread than that which
grows in deep and low grounds.
Fr<?wj6-BREAD. To make good French bread, for every
two quarts of flour, add fix fpoonfuls of ale yeaft;
alfo milk and water, warmed ; a bit of butter, and a
little fait; make them pretty light, and letting them
rife before the fire, bake them in a quick oven
Some put the yolks of fix eggs, and the whites of
two, to this quantity; but others think the bread better
without them.
Foreign bread, or bifket, pays duty on importation
is. 7T^o-d. for every i.izib. whereof is. 5TV^d. is
repaid on exporting it again.
Bread-room, in a flap, that deftined to hold the bread,
or bifket.
The boards of the bread-room ftiould be well joined
and caulked, and even lined with tin plates, or mats.
It is alfo proper to warm it well, with charcoal, for
feveral days before the bifket is put into it; fince no¬
thing is more injuries to the bread than moifture.
Bread, in fcripture ftyle, is taken for every fort of
food. The ancient Hebrews had feveral ways of ba¬
king bread, as baking it under the afhes, between two
fires made of cow-dung, and in an oven. The Jews
had, befides their leavened and unleavened bread, their
fhew-bread, bread of affli&ion, &c. See the articles
Leavened,
BREADTH, in geometry, one of the three dimenfions
of bodies, which multiplied into their length confti-
tutes a furface.
BRE AK, in a general fenfe, fignifies to divide a thing
into feveral parts with violence.
In the art of war, to break ground, is to open the
trenches before a place.
Among fportfmen, to break a horfe in trotting, is to
make him light upon the hand in trotting, in order to
make him fit for a gallop. To break a horfe for hunt¬
ing, is to fupple him, to make him take the habit of
running.
BREAKING, in a mercantile ftyle, denotes the not
paying one’s bills of exchange, accepted,,or other pro-
miflary notes, when due ; and abfconding, to avoid
the feverity of one’s creditors. In which fenfe, breaking
is the fame with becoming bankrupt. See Bankrupt.
Breaking bulk, in the fea language, is the fame with
unlading part of the cargo.
BREAM, in ichthyology, the Englifh pameof the cypri-
nus brama. See Cyprinus.
BREAST, in anatomy, denotes the fore-parts of the
thorax. See Anatomy, p. 227.
Breasts, or mammae, in anatomy. See Anatomy,
p. 227.
Breast-plate, in antiquity, g piece of armour worn to
defend the bread, originally believed to be made of
hides, or hemp twilled intofmall cords, but afterwarcs
made of brafs, iron, or other metals, which -were
fometimes fo exquifitely hardened, as to be proof
againll the greatelt force.
Breast-plate, in the menage, the llrap of leather that
runs from one fide of the faddle to the,other, over the
horfe’s breall, in order to keep the faddle tight, and
hinder it from Aiding backwards.
Breast-plough,'one fo falhioned that a man may
Ihove it before him.
Breast-work the fame with parapet. See Parapet.
BREATH, the air inlpired and expelled again in the
aftion of refpiration.
Breath, or wind, in the menage, fometimes fignifies
the eafy refpiration of an horfe, and fometimes it im¬
plies the eafe and reft or repofe of a horfe; as, give
your horfe breath, that is, do not ride him down ;
give that leaping horfe a long breathing-time between
the turns or repetitions of his menage, 6c.
BREATHING, the fame with refpiration..
BRECHIN, a borough-town of the county of Angus in
Scotland, about 15 miles north-eaft of Dundee ; W.
long. 20 20, north lat. y6° qd.
BRECON, or Brecknock, a borough-town of Breck-
nocklhire, in Wales; W. long. 30 25', N. lat. 520.
BREDA, the capital of Dutch Brabant, about 30 miles
north-eaft of Antwerp; E. long. 4'’ 40', N. lat. 510
40/. It is a ftrong fortified town.
BREECHES, a kind of clofe garment or covering for
the tlughs, hips, ire. worn by the modern Europeans.
The breeches are peculiar to the male fex, and an-
fwer, in fome meafure, to the femoralia of the Romans.
BREECH of a great gun, or cannon, the end next the
touch-hole.
BREECHINGS, in the fea-Ianguage, the ropes with
which the great guns are laflied, or faftened to the
Ihip’s fide.
They are thus called, becaufe made to pafs round
the breech of the gun.
BREEDING, in a general fenfe, the producing, nou-
rifliing, and educating all manner of young animals.
Breeding s/'/’oq/Jr. See.Equus.
BREEZE, a {Lifting wind, that blows from fea or land
for fonie certain hours in the day or night;, common
in Africa and fome parts of the E. and W. Indies.
The fea-breeze is only fenfible near the coafts; it
commonly rifes in the morning, about nine, proceed¬
ing flowly in a fine fmall black curl on the water, to¬
wards the Ihore; it increafes gradually till twelve,,
and dies about five. Upon its ceafing, the land-breeze
commences, which increafes till twelve at night, and
is fucceeded in the morning by the fea-breeze again.
Breeze, in brick-making, fmall afites and cinders,
fometimes made ufe of inftead of coals, for the burn¬
ing of bricks: But as this does not fo well anfwer the
end, the ufe of it is prohibited by 12 George I.
cap. xxxv.
I5aEez,e„
B li E ( 664 ) B R E
Breeze, is .ilfo the name of an infect, called the gad¬
fly, or horfe-fly. See Fly.
BREGENTS, or Bergents, a town fituated at the
ealt end of the lake of Conitance, in the county of
Tyrol in Germany; E. long. 90 40', andN. lat. 47®
36'.
BREGMA, in anatomy, the fame with finciput. See
Anatomy, p. 154.
BREIDEWICK, a cape on the fouth-weft of Iceland,
in the northern ocean.
BREMEN, the capital of the duchy of the fame name,
in Lower Saxony, fituated on the river Wefer, in 8°
20rE. long, and 53° N. lat.
This city and duchy belongs to the king of Great
Britain, as eledtor of Hanover.
BREMERVHOIDE,, a fortified town of the duchy of
Bremen, about feventeen miles north of Bremen; E.
long. 8° 35', and N. lat. 53° 48'.
BREMGARTEN, a town of Switzerland, in the coun¬
ty of Baden, about twelve miles weft of Zurich; E.
long. 8° 15', and N. kt. 47° 20'.
BREMINGHAM, in geography. See Birmingham.
BRENBERG, in geography. See Bernburg.
BRENT, in geography, a market town of Devonftiire,
fituated twenty-feveh miles fouth-w'eft of Exeter; W.
long. 40 7% and N. lat. 50° 30'.
Brent-£0o/*>, a fpecies of goofe with a black neck, and
a white collar round; ufually confounded with the
barnacle, though in reality a diftindt fpecies.
It is a little larger than the common duck, and is
defcribed by authors under the name of anas torquata.
BRENTA, a liquid meafure ufed at Rome.
BRENTE, in geography, a river which, taking its rife
in the bifhopric of Trent, in Germany, runs fouth-
eaft through the Venetian territories, and falls into the
Adriatic fea, oppofite to Venice.
BRENTFORD, a market-town of Middlefex, about
feven miles weft of London; W. long. 7', and N.
lat 510 26'.
BRENTWOOD, or Burntwood, a market-town of
Eflex, about fifteen miles eaft of London; E. long.
15', and N. lat. y i° 35'.
BREPHOTROPHIUM, an hofpital for the mainte¬
nance of children; not unlike our foundling-hofpital.
See Hospital,
BRESCIA, a city of Italy, about thirty miles north of
Cremona; E. long. io° 35', andN. lat. 450 3c/.
It is a biftiop’s iee, andfubjedt to Venice.
BRESELLO, a town of the duchy of Modena, in I-
taly, fituated on the fouthern ftiore of the river Po,
about twenty five miles north-weft of Modena; E.
long. ii°, andN. lat. 440 46,>
BRESICATE, in commerce, a kind of bays, of which
there is fome trade carried on with the negroes, be¬
tween the river Gambia and Sierra Leone. The beft
forts for that purpofe are the blue and the red,
BRESLAW, the capital of Silefia, fituated upon the
river Oder, in 160 yc/ E. long, and yi° ry' N. lat.
BRESMA, in ichthyology, a name ufed by fome for the
bream. See Bream.
BRESSE, a territory of Burgundy, in France; it is
bounded by Franche Compte on the north, by Savoy
on the eaft, by Dauphine on the fouth, and by the
Lydnois on the weft.
BRESSICI, in geography. See Breste.
BRESSVIRE, a town of Poidiou, in the Orleanois, in
France, fituated about thirty-five miles north-weft of
Poidliers; W. long. 30', and N. lat. 46° yo'.
BREST, in geography, an excellent port-town of Bri-
tany in France; W. long. 4° 3c/, and N. lat. 48° ay'.
Brest, or Breast, in architedlure, a term fometimes
ufed for the member of a column, more ufually called
torus. See Torus.
'BRKST-fu?mners, in timber buildings, are pieces in the
outward thereof, into which the girders are framed:
this, in the ground-floor, is called a cell; and, in the
garret-floor, abeam.
As to their fize, it is the fame with that of girders.
See Girders.
BRESTE, or Bressici, the capital of the palatinate
of Breflici, and of Polefia, in Poland, fituated on the
river Bog, about eighty miles eaft of Warfaw; E.
long. 240, and N. lat. y2®.
BRETESSE, in heraldry, denotes a line embattled on
both fides.
BRETON, or Cape-breton, an American ifland, fub-
jedf to the Englifli, and feparated from New-Scotland
by a narrow ftreight called Canfo : it is about one hun¬
dred miles in length, and fifty in breadth, and is fitu¬
ated between 6i° and 62° W. long, and between 43 0
and 48 0 N. lat.
BRETVEIL, a town of Normandy, in France, about
thirty-five miles fouth of Rouen; E. long. t°, and
lat. 48° yo\
Bretveil is alfo the name of a town in Picardy, about
fix leagues from Amiens.
BREUBERG, a country and town of Germany, in the
circle of Franconia, fituated upon the banks of the
Maine.
BREVE, in law, is any writ direffed to the chancellor,
judges, fheriffs, or other officers, whereby a perfon is
fummoned, or attached, to anfwer in the king’s court,
fac.
Breve perquirere, the purchafing of a writ or licence
for trial in the king’s courts; whence comes the pre-
fent ufage of paying 6 s. 8 d. fine to the king in fuit,
for money due on bond, where the debt is 401. and
of ids. where it is xool. <bc.
Breve de redo is a writ of right, or licence, for a per¬
fon ejedled, to fue for the pofleflion of the eftate de¬
tained from him.
Breve, in mufic, a note or charatter of time, in the
form of a diamond or fquare, without any tail, and
equivalent to two meafures or minims.
BREVET, in the French cuftoms, denotes the grant of
fome favour or donation from the king, in which fenfe
it partly anfwers to our warrant, and partly to letters-
patent.
BREVIARY, a daily office, or book of divine fervice,
in the Romilh church. It is compofed of matins,
lauds, firft, third, fixth, and ninth vefpers, and the
compline, or poft communio.
The
B R E ( 665 ) B R E
The breviary of Rome is general, and may be ufed
in all places; but on the model of this various others
have been bailt, appropriated to each diocefe, and
each order of religious.
The breviary of die Greeks is the fame in almoft
all churches and monalteries that follow the Greek
rites : the Greeks divide the pialter into twenty parts.
In general, the Greek breviary confiits of two parts;
the one containing the office for the evening, the other
that of the morning, divided into matins, lauds, rirft,
thud, lixth, and ninth vefpers, and the compline;
that is, of (even different hours, on account of that
faying of David, Septies in die laudem dixi tibi.
The inftitution of the breviary is not very ancient:
there have been inferred in it the lives of the faints,
full df ridiculous and ill-attefted dories, which gave
occafipn to feveral reformations of it, by feveral coun¬
cils, particularly thofe of Trent and Cologn; by fe¬
veral popes, particularly Pius V. Clement VIII. and
Urban VIII.; and alfo by feveral cardinals and bi-
Ihops, each lopping off fome extravagances, and bring¬
ing it nearer to the fimplicity of the primitive offices.
Originally, every body was obliged to recite the
breviary every day; but by degrees the obligation was
reduced to the clergy only, who are enjoined, under
penalty of mortal fin and ecclefiaftical cenfures, to re¬
cite it at home, when they cannot attend in public.
In the XIVth century, there was a particular referve
granted in favour of biffiops, who were allowed, on
extraordinary occafions, to pafs three days without re-
hearimg the'breviary.
This office was originally called curfus, and after-
waids the breviarium\ which latter name imports,
that the old office was abridged, or rather, that this
colle&ion is a kind of abridgment of all the prayers.
The breviaries now in ufe are innumerable; the
difference between them confifts principally in the
number and order of the pfalms, hymns, pater-no-
fters, ave-Maries, creeds, magnificats, cantemus’s,
benedi&us’s, canticamus’s, nunc diraittis’s, miferere’s,
halelujah’s, gloria patri’s, <bc.
BreviarYjTii Roman antiquity, a book firfl: introduced
by Auguftus, containing an account of the application
of the public money.
BREVIATOR, an officer under the eaftern empire,
whofe bufinefs it was to write and tranflate briefs.
At Rome thofe are fiiil called breviators, or abbre-
viators, who di&ate and draw up the pope’s briefs.
BREVIBUS a ret tills liber andis, a writ or command
to a ffieriff to deliver to his fuccefibr the county, with
the appurtenances, and the rolls, writs, and other
things to his office belonging.
BREVIER, among printers, a fmall kind of type or
letter between bourgeois and minion.
BREVIUM cayiW. See Gustos.
BREVORDT, a town of Guelderland, in the United
Netherlands, fituated about twenty-five miles fouth-
eaft of Zutphen, in 6° 35^ E. long, and 520 N. iat.
BREWER, a perfon who profeffes the art of brewing.
There are companies of brewers in moft capital ci¬
ties; that of London was incorporated in 1427, by
Hen. VI. and that of Paris is fiiil older.
Brewer’s-haven, a good harbour at the north end of
the ifland of Chiloe, on the coaft of Chili, in South
America; W. long. 82°, and S lat. 42°.
BREW HOUSE, a place for brewing. See Brewing.
BREWING.
BREWING is the operation of preparing ale or beer
from malt. Before we treat of this operation, it
•will be neceffary to explain the nature of malt, and the
method of making it.
O F M A L T.
That fpecies of fermentation which is called the vi¬
nous fermentation, is only produceable by the juices of
vegetable fubftances. The fugar or faccharine matter is
the caufe of this fermentation. If fugar be added to
water in the proportion of 1 to 3, a proper vinous fer¬
mentation is excited. When this faccharine matter is
extrafled from vegetables, they immediately lofe their
fermentative power. Moft plants either naturally con¬
tain this faccharine matter, or are capable of acquiring
it by a certain method of treatment. This procefs of
converting vegetable fubftances into a fngar is known by
the name of malting.
Vol. I. Numb. 28.
Though moft vegetable fubftances be convertible into
malt, barley is found by experience to be the moft proper
for undergoing this operation.
As the converting of grains into malt, is only a part
of the progrefs towards their germination, it may be
performed by committing them for fome time to the earth.
But the ordinary method is to fteep the barley for fome
time in water, and then to expofe it in heaps on the floor
of a barn till it begins to heat: after which, it muft be
fpread out in thin layers, to prevent putrefadion It
ought to continue in this fituation till the plume or bud is
juft about to efcape from the feed, and then it is confi-
dered as perfedlly malted; that is, the feeds are con¬
verted into a fweet, moift fubftance This change of
tafte, or malting, keeps exadt pace with the progrefs of
the plume; hence one half of the feed is frequently malt¬
ed, while the other undergoes no change. If the plume
be allowed to (hoot- fully out, ■ the feeds immediately
lofe their facdiarine tafte, and are changed into ; ipid
8 F hollow
3
666 BREWING.
Irollow bags. When feeds are thus fufEciently malted,
they muft be dried in malt-kilns, the fuel of which
Ihould fmoke as little as poffible.—The hulks muft now
be broke open by malt-milns, and then infufed or malhed
in warm water, in order to extract the faccharine fub-
ftance ; the heat applied Ihould be very flow and gradual.
Thus the malt is difl’olved, and lies till the liquor be fuf-
ficiently tinftured. When the malt is too long difFufed,
io that an acetous fermentation begins to take place, it
is called blinking, or foxing, by brewers.
This tindure obtained from the infufion of grinded
malt, is commonly known by the name of wort.
We ftiall now give an account of this procefs in the
language and manner of the adual brewer, which will
probably be more acceptable than treating it in a philofo-
phical manner.
Of making Malt. .
Th» barley muft be put into a leaden or tiled ciftern,
that holds five, ten, or more quarters, and covered with
water four or fix inches above the barley, to allow
for its fwell. Here it muft lie five or fix tides, as the
maltfter calls it, reckoning twelve hours to the tide, ac¬
cording as the barley is in body or in drinefs. The way
to know when it is enough, is to take a corn, end-ways,
between the fingers, and gently cruih it; and if it be in
all parts mellow, and the hulk opens, or ftarts a little
from the body of the corn, then it is enough . The nice-
ty'of this is a material point; for if it be infufed too
much, the fweetnefs of the malt will be greatly taken
off, and yield the lefs fpirit,,and will caufe deadnefs and
fournefs in ale or beer in a flrort time, for the goodnefs
of the malt contributes much to the prefervation of all
aies and beers. Then the water muft be well drained
from it, and it will come equal and better on the floor,
which may be done in twelve or fixteen hours in tempe¬
rate weather, but in cold near thirty. From the ciftern,
it is put into a fquare hutch or couch, where it muft lie
thirty hours; then it muft be worked night and day in
one or two heaps, as the weather is cold or hot, and
turned every four, fix, or eight hours, the outward part
inwards, and the bottom upwards, always keeping a clear
floor, that the corn that lies next to it be not chilled;
and as foon as it begins to come or fpire, then turn it
every three;, four, or five hours, as was done before,
according to the temper of the air, which greatly go¬
verns this management; and as it comes or works more,
fo muft the heap be fpreaded and thinned larger to cool
it. Thus it may lie and be worked on the floor in feve-
ral parallels, two or three feet thick, ten or more feet
broad, and fourteen or more in length, to chip or fpire,
but not too much nor too fall; and when it is come enough,
it is to be. turned twelve or fixteen times in twenty-four
hours, if the feafon is warm, as in March, April, or
May; and when it is fixed, and the root begins to be
dead, then it mi!ft be thickened again, and carefully,
kept often turned and worked, that the growing of the:
root may not revive, and this is better done with the
fhoes off than on: And here the workman’s art and dili¬
gence in particular is tried, in keeping the floor clear,.
and turning the malt often, that it neither moulds nor
acre-fpires, that is, that the blade does not grow out at
the oppofite end of the root; for, if it does, the flower
and ftrength of the malt is gone, and nothing left be¬
hind but the acre-fpire, hufk, and tail: Now, when it
is at this degree, and fit for the kiln, it is often put into
a heap, and let lie twelve hours before it is turned, to
heat and mellow, which will much improve the malt
if it is done with moderation, and after that time it
muft be turned every fix hours during twenty-four ; but
if it is overheated, it will become like greafe and be
fpoiled, or at leaft caufe the drink to be unwholefome.
When this operation is over, it then muft be put on the
kiln, to dry four, fix, or twelve hours, according to the
nature of the malt; for the pale fort requires more lei-
fure, and lefs fire, than the amber or brown forts: Three
inches thick was formerly thought a fufficient depth for
the malt to lie on the hair-cloth ; but now fix is often
allowed it; fourteen or fixteen feet fquare will dry about
two quarters, if the malt lies four inches thick, and
here it fliould be turned every two, three, or four hours,
keeping the hair cloth clear: The time of preparing it
from the ciftern to the kiln is uncertain, according to
the feafon of the year; in moderate weather, three weeks
are often fufficient. When the malt is dried, it muft
not cool on the kiln, but be diredtly thrown off, not into
a heap, but fpreaded' wide in an airy place, till it is
thoroughly cool; then put it into a heap, or otherwife
difpofe of it.
There are feveral methods ufed in drying of malts, as
the iron-plate frame, the tile-frame, that are both full
of little holes; the brafs-wired, and iron-wired frame,
and the hair-cloth. The iron and tiled ones were chiefly
invented for drying of brown malts, and faving of fuel;
for thefe, when they come to be thorough hot, will make
the corns crack and jump by the fiercenefs of their heat,
fo that they will be roafted or fcorched in a little time ;
and after they are off the kiln, to plump the body of
the corn, and make it take the eye, feme will fprinkle
water over it, that it may meet with- the better market:
But if fuch malt is not ufed quickly, it will flacken and
lofe its fpirits to a great degree, and perhaps, in half a.
year or lefs, may be taken by the whools and fpoiled.
Such Hafty dryings, or fcorchings, are alfo apt to bitter
the malt, by burning its fkin, and therefore thefe kilns-
are not fo much ufed now as formerly. The wire-frames*
indeed are fomething better, yet they are apt to fcorch
the outward part of the corn, that cannot be got off fo
foon as the hair-cloth admits of, for thefe muft be fwept
when the other is only turned at once; however, thefe
laft three ways are now in much requeft for drying pale;
and amber malts, becaufe their fire may be kept with
more leifure, and the . malt more gradually and better
dryed. But by many the hair-cloth is reckoned the
beft.
Malts are dried with feveral forts of fuel ; as the-
coak, Welch coal, Jftraw, wood, and fern, <&c. But •
the coak is reckoned by .moft to exceed all others for
making drink of the fineft flavour and pale colour, be-
caufe it fends no fmoke forth to hurt the malt with any
offenfive tang, that wood, fern, and ftraw are apt to do.
B R E \
in a lefler or greater degree; but there is a difference
even in what is called coak, the right fort being large
pit-coal charred or burnt in fome meafure to a cinder,
till all the fulphur is confumed and evaporated, which is
called choak ; and this, when it is truly made, is the
bell of all other fuels. But if there be but one cinder as
big as an egg, not thoroughly cured, the fmoke of this
one is capable of doing damage, which happens too often
by the negligence or avarice of the choak-maker : There
is another lort, by fome wrongly called choak, and
rightly named culm or Welch-coal, from Swanzey in
Pembrokelhire, being of a hard ftony fubftance, in fmall
bits, refembling a fhinning coal, and will burn without
fmoke, and by its fulphureous effluvia caff a molt excel¬
lent whitenefs on all the outward parts of the grainy bo¬
dy: In Devonlhire their marble or grey fire-ftone is
burnt into lime with the ftrong fire that this culm makes,
and both this and the chalked pit-coal afford a moderate
and certain fire to all malt that is dried by it. Straw is
the next fweeteft fuel; but wood and fern are the word.
Some put a peck or more of peafe, and malt them
with five quarters of barley, to mellow the drink :
Beans are ufed for the fame purpofe; but they do not
come fo foon, nor mix fo conveniently with the malt, as
the pea.
Barley is not fit to make malt of till it is fully mel¬
lowed and fweated in the mow, and the feafon of the
year is ready for it, witbout both which there can be no
affurance of good malt. This untimely making of malt
often occafions bad ales and beers; for fuch malt retain¬
ing fome of its barley nature, or that the feafon of the
year is not cold enough to admit of. its natural working,
on the floor, is not capable of producing a true malt,
but will caufe its drink to flink in the calk inftead of
growing fit for ufe, as not having its genuine malt nature
to cure and preferve it, which .all good malts contribute,
to as well as the hop.
Mellilet, a molt ftinking weed that grows among bar¬
ley, if not thoroughly cleaned from it before malting,.
makes the drink fo heady, that it is apt to intoxicate the
unwary by drinking a fmall quantity : Befides, it gives a .
naufeous flavour to the liquor.
To know good from bad Malts.
First, break the malt-corn acrofs between the teeth, in.
the middle, or at both ends, and if it tafleth mellow and
fweet, has a round body, breaks foft, is full of flour all ,
its length, fmells well, and has a thin Ikin, then it is
good. Secondly, take a glafs near full of water, and
put in fome malt ; if it fwims., it is right; but if any ;
finks to the bottom, then it is not true malt, but fteely,.
and retains fomewhatof its barley nature; this, however,.
is not an infallible rule, becaufe, if a corn of malt is
cracked, fplit, or broke, it will then take the water and,
fink ; but an allowance may. be given for fuch incidents,.
and ftiil room enough to make a judgment. Thirdly,
malt that is truly made will not be hard and fteely, but ■
of fo mellow n nature, that, if forced againft a dry
board, it will mark, and call a white colour almoft like
,chalk. Fourthly, malt that is not rightly made will be .
V i N G. 667
part of it of a hard barley nature, and weigh heavier than
that which is true malt.
Of the Nature and Ufe of Pale, Amber, and
Brown Malts.
The pale malt is the floweft and flackeft dried of any*
and where it has had a leifure fire, a fufficient time al¬
lowed it on the kiln, and a due care taken of it, the
flour of the grain will remain in its full quantity, and
thereby produce a greater length of wort than the brown
high-dried malt. It may be brewed either with fpring or
common well water.
The amber-coloured malt is that which is dried in a
medium degree, between the pale and the brown, and is
very much in ufe, as being free of either extreme. Its
colour is pleafant, its talle agreeable, and its nature
wholefome, which makes it be preferred by many as the
beft of malts; this by fome is brewed either with hard or
foft waters, or a mixture of both.
The brown malt is the fooneft and higheft dried of any,.
even till it is fo hard, that it is difficult to bite fome of
its corns afunder. This malt, by fome, is thought to oc-
cafion the gravel or ftone, and is by its fteely nature lefs
nourifhing than the pale or amber malts,. being very,
much impregnated with the fiery particles of the kiln,
and therefore its drink fooner becomes {harp and acidi
than that made from the pale or amber forts, if they are
all fairly brewed: For this reafon the London brewers
moftly ufe the Thames or New River waters to brew
this malt with, for the fake of its foft nature, whereby
it agrees with the harffi qualities of it better than any of
the well or other hard forts, and makes a lufeious ale
for a little while, and a but-beer, or porter, that will keep
very well five or fix months ; but after that time it ge¬
nerally grows ftale, notwithftanding there be ten or twelve
buffiels allowed to. the hogffiead, and it be hopped ac¬
cordingly.
Pale and amber malts dried with coak or culm, ob¬
tain amore clean, bright, pale colour, than if dried with
any other fuel, becaufe there is not fmoak to darken and
fully their {kins or hulks, and give them an ill reliffl,
which thofe malts have, more or lefs, that are dried
with ftraw, wood, or fern, ?$rcv. The coak or Welch
coal alfo makes more true and compleat malt than any
other fuel, becaufe its fire gives both a gentle and cer¬
tain heat, whereby the corns are in all their parts gra¬
dually dried; and therefore of late thele malts' have
gained fuch a reputation, that great quantities have been
confumed in moft partsmf the narion for their whole¬
fome nature and fweet fine tafte.
Next to the coak'-dried, malt, the ftraw dried is the
fweeteft and beft tafted : This, it muft be acknowledged,
is fometimes well malted, where the barley, wheat,
ftraw, conveniencies, and the maker’s flcill, are good;
but as the fire-of the ftraw is not fo regular as the edak,
the malt is attended with more uncertainty in its making,
becaufe it is difficult to keep it to a moderate and equal
heat, and alfo expofes the malt in fome degree to the
tafte of the fmoak.
Brown malts are dried with ftraw, wood, and fern, .
<bct
WING.
<568 B R E
fcc. the ftraw-dried j?. the bcft; the wood-fort has a
moil ungrateful tafte, and few can bear it, but the ne-
ceiTitous, and thofe that are accuftomed to its ftrong
finoaky tang; j'et it is much ufed in fome of the wdtei n
parts of England.
The fern-dried malt is alfo attended with a rank dif-
agreeable talte from the fmoak of this vegetable.
O f grinding Malts.
This article well deferves the notice of all brewers,
for on it the goodnefs of our drink greatly depends ; be-
caufe, if it is ground too fmall, the flour of the malt will
be the eafier and more freely mixed with the water, and
will caufe the wort to run thick; therefore the malt mull
be only juft broke in the mill, to make it emit its fpirit
gradually, and incorporate its flour with the water in
fuch a manner, that firft a ftout beer, then an ale, and
afterwards a fmall beer may be had at one and the fame
brewing, and the wort run off fine and clear to thelaft.
Many are likewife fo fagacious as to grind their brown
malt a fortnight before they ufe it, and keep it in a dry
place, that it may become mellower, by lofing in a great
meafure the fury of its harfli fiery particler, and its fteely
nature, which this fort of malt acquires on the kiln.
However, this, as well as many other hard bodies, may
be reduced by time and air into a more foluble, mellow,
and foft condition, and then it will imbibe the water, and
give a natural kind tin<fture more freely, by which a
greater quantity and ftrohger drink may be made thafi
if it was ufed dire&ly from the mill, and be much
fmoother and better tafted. But pale malts will be fit
for ufe at a week’s end, becaufe the leifurenefs of their
drying endows them with a foftnefs from the time they
are taken off the kiln to the time they are brewed, and
fupplies in them w'hat time and air muft do in the brown
forts. - This method of grinding malt fo long before¬
hand cannot be fo conveniently pradtifed by fome of the
great brewers, becaufe feveral of them brew two or three
times a week ; but now moft of them grind their malts
into the tun by the help of a long, defcending, wooden
.fpout; and here they fave the charge of emptying or un-
caling it out of the bin, and alfo-the wafte of a great deal
of the malt-flour, that is loft when carried in balkets.
A fteel hand-mill, will, by the help of only one man,
grind fix or eight bufliels in an hour, and will jaft a fa¬
mily many years without hardening or cuttingi There
are fome old faihioned ftone hand-mills in being that
fome prefer to the iron ones, becaufe they alledge that
thefe break the corn’s body, when the iron ones only
cut it in two, which occafions the malt, fo broke by the
ftones, to give the water a more eafy, free, and regular
power to extra# its virtue, than the cut-malt can that is
more confined within its hull. Notwithftaoding, the iron
ones are now moftly in ufe, for their great di(patch and
long duration. In the country they frequently throw a
fack of malt on a ftone or brick floor as foon as it is
ground, and let it lie, giving it one turn, for a day or
two, that the ftones or bricks may draw out the fiery
quality it received from the kiln,'and give the drink a
foft mild tafte.
Of the Nature of feveral JVaters, and their Ufe
in Brewing.
Water is a matter of great importance in brewing
wholefome fine malt-liquors. Now, the more fimple and
freer every water is from foreign particles, it is the bet¬
ter.
Spring-waters are in general liable to partake of tkofe
minerals through which they -pals. At Uppingham in
Rutland, their watei is faid to come off an alum rock,
and fo tinges their beer with its faline quality, that it is
eafily tafted at the firft draught. But that which will
lather with foap, or foft water, that percolates through
chalk, or a grey fire-ftone, is generally accounted beft ;
for chalk in this refpe# excells all other earths, became
it communicates nothing unwholefome to the waters, but
abforbs any minerals that may accompany the water
that runs through them : For which reafon they throw
in great q^ antities of chalk into their wells at Ailelbury
to foften their water, which, coming off a black fand-
ftone, is fo hard and (harp, that it will often tufrT their
beer four in a week’s time : fo that in its original ftate
it is neither fit to wafh nor brew with, but fo long as the
alcaline particles of the chalk hold good, they put it to
.both ufes.
River-water is lefs liable to be loaded with metallic,
petrifying, or faline particles, than the well or Ipring
forts, efpecially at fome diftance from the fpring head,
becaufe the rain-water mixes with and foftens it. But
in running, it often collects, grcfs particles, from ouzy
muddy mixtures, paiticuiarly near town, which make
the beer fubje# to new fermentations, and grow foul up¬
on any alteration of the weather, as the Thames-water
generally does ; yet this, for its foftnefs, is much better
than the hard fort; however, both thefe waters are ufed
by fome brewers. But where river-water can be had clear
in a dry time, when no great rain has lately fell out of
rivulets, or rivers that have a gravelly, chalky, fandy,
or ftony bottom, tree from the difturbance of cattle, &c.
and in good air, it may then juftly claim the name of a
moft excellent water for brewing, and will make a ftrong-
er drink with the fame quantity of malt than any of the
well-waters; infomuch that that of the Thames has been
proved to make as ftrong beer with feven bufhels of malt,
as well-water with eight; and fo are all river-waters in
a proportionable degree, and, where they can be obtai i-
ed clean and pure, drink may be drawn fine in a few days
after tunning.
Rain-water is very foft, of a moft fimple and pure na¬
ture, and the bcft diluter of any, efpecially if received
free from dirt and mortar that often mix with it as it
runs off tiled roofs; this is very agreeable for brew¬
ing of ales that are not to be kept long, but for beers
that are to remain fome time in the calks, it is not fo
good, being apt to putrify the fooneft of any.
Pond waters. This includes all (landing waters, chief¬
ly from rain, and are good or bad according to circum-
ftances ; for where there is a clean bottom, and the wa¬
ter lies undifturbed from the tread of cattle, or too ma¬
ny fiflr, in an open found air, in a large quantity, and
where
BR EW
where the fun has free accefs, it is then nearly as good
as rain or river-waters. But where it is in a fmall quan¬
tity, or full of fi(h (efpecially the fling-tench) or is fo
riifturbed by cattle, as to force up mud and filth, it is
then the mofl: foul and difagreeable of all others : So is
it likewife in long dry feafons, when our pond-waters are
fo low as to oblige us to drain it through fieves before
we can ufe it, to take out the fmall red worms and oj
ther corruptions that ftagnant waters are fubjedt to.
The London Method of Brewing.
Stout Butt beer or Porter.
This is the ftrongeft porter that is brewed from brown
malt, and often fold for forty (hillings the barrel, or fix
pounds the butt out of the wholefale cellars : The liquor
(for it is fix-pence forfeit in the London brew-boufe if
the word nuater is named) in the copper defigned for the
firfl mafli, has a two-buftiel balket, or more, of the mod
hully malt thrown over it, to cover its top, and after¬
wards its boiling; this mull be made very hot, almoft
ready to boil, yet not fo as toblifler, for then it will be
in too high heat; but, as an indication of this, the foul
part of the liquor will afcend, and the malt fwell up, and
then it mufl: be parted, looked into, and felt with the
finger or back of the hand, ajid if the liquor be clear,
and of fuch heat as can be but juft endured, it is
then enough, and the ftoker muft damp his fire as foon
as poflible, by throwing in a good parcel of frefh coals,
and (hutting his iron vent-doors ; immediately on this,
they let as much cold liquor or water run into the copper
as will make it all of a heat, fomewhat more than
blood-warm ; this they pump over, or let it pafs by a
«ock into an upright wooden fquare fpout or trunk, and
it direftly rifes through the holes of a falfe bottom into
the malt, which is worked by feveral men with oars for
about half an hour, and is called the firft and ftiffmafti:
While this is doing, there is more liquor heating in the
copper, that muft not be let into the maih-tun till it is
very (harp, almoft ready to boil; with this they mafti again,
then cover it with feveral balkets of malt, and let it (land
an hour before it runs into the under-back, which, when
boiled an hour and a half with a good quantity of hops,
makes this ftout. The next is mafhed with a cooler li¬
quor, then a (harper, and the next blood-warm or quite
cold; by which alternate degrees of heat, a quantity of
fmall beer is made after the ftout.
To make Porter, Or Butt-beer^ to have a fine Tang.
This, of late, has been improved two ways : Firft,
by mixing two buftiels of pale malt with fix of brown,
which will preferve butt-beer in a mellow condition, and.
caufe it to have a pleafant fweet flavour: And, fecond-
ly, further to improve and render it more palatable, they
boil it two hours and a half, and work it two days as
cold as poflible in the tun ; at laft, they (Hr it, and put
a good handful of common fait into the quantity of a
butt: Then, when the yeaft has had one rifing more,
they tun it.
Strong Bro<wn Ale, called Stitch.
Most of this is the firft running of the malt, but yet
"VeL. I. Numb. 28. 3
I N G. 66y
of a longer length than is drawn from the ftout ; it has
but few hops boiled in it, and is fold for eight-pence fer
gallon at the brew-houfe out of the tun, and is generally
made to amend the common brown ale with, on particu¬
lar occafions.
Common Brown Ale and Starting-beer.
They take the liquors from the brown .ale as for the
ftout, but draw a greater quantity from the malt than
for ftout or ftitch ; and after the fti(F and fecond mail),
they cap the goods with frefti malt, to keep in the fpirk,
and boil it an hour; after this, fmall beer is made of the
fame goods. Thus alfo the common brow'n ftarting butt-
beer or porter is brewed, only boiled with taore hops
an hour and a half, and worked cooler and longer than
the brown ale, and a (horter length drawn from the malt.
But it is cuftomary after the brown ale, or when a quan¬
tity of fmall beer is wanted, or is to be brewed better
than ordinary, to put fo much freih malt on the goods as
will anfwer that purpofe.
Pale and Amber Ales and Beer.
As the brown malts are brewed wdth river, thefe are
brewed with well or fpring-Iiquors. The liquors are by
fome taken (harper for pale than brown malts, and, after
the firft fcalding liquor is put over, fome lower the reft
by degrees, to the laft, which is quite cold, for their
fmall beer; and for butt-beers, there is no other diffe¬
rence than the addition of more hops, and boiling, and
the method of working.
Entire Guile Ssnail Beer.
On the firft liquor they throw fome hully malt, to
(hew the break of it, and when it is very (harp, they let
in fome cold liquor, and run it into the tun milk-warm ;
this is maftied with thirty or forty pulls of the oar, and
let (land till the fecond liquor is ready, which muft be
almoft fclalding hot to the back of the hand ; then run
it by the cock into the tun, ma(h it up, and let it (land
an hour before it is fpent off into the under-back : Thefe
two pieces of liquor will make one copper of the firft
wort, without putting any frefti malt on the goods ; the
next liquor to be blood-warm, the next (harp, and the
next cool or cold; for the general way in great brew-
houfes is, to let a cool liquor precede a (harp one, be-
caufe it gradually opens the gores of the malt and goods,
and prepares the way for the hotter liquor that is to fol¬
low.
The feveral Lengths or Quantities of Drinks that have
been made from Malt, and their feveral Prices, as
they have been fold at a common Brew-houfe.
For ftout-beer, is commonly drawn one barrel off a
quarter of malt, and fold for thirty (hillings /w barrel
from the tun. For ftitch or ftrong brown ale, one bar¬
rel and a firkin, at one and twenty (hillings and four
pence per barrel from the tun. For common brown
ale, one barrel and a half, or more, at fixteen (hillings
per barrel, that holds thirty-two Englifti gallons from
the tun. For entire.fmall beer, five or fix barrels off a
quarter, -at feven or eight (hillings per barrel from the
tun. For pale and amber ale, one barrel and a firkin,
at one (hilling per gallon, from the tun.
^7° B R E
A Method praflifed by a Viflualler, for Brewing Ale
or 0Bober Beer, from Nottingham.
His copper holds twenty-four gallons, and the mafli-
tub has room enough for four or more bulhels of malt.
The firft full copper of boiling water he puts into the
rnalh-tub, there to lie a quarter of an hour, till the
tleam is fo far fpent that he can Fee his face in it; or, as
fbon as the hot water is put in, throws a pail or two of
cold water into it, which will bring it at once into a tem¬
per ; then he lets three bulhels of malt be run leifurely
into it, and ftirred or mafhed all the while, but as little
as can be, or no more than juft to keep the malt from
clotting or balling ; when that is done, he puts one
bulhel of dry malt at the top, to keep in the vapour or
fpirit, and fo lets it ftand covered two hours, or till the
next copper-full of water is boiling hot, which he lades
over the malt or goods three hand-bowls full at a
time, that are to run off at the cock or tap by a very
fmall ftream before more is put on, which again muft be
returned into the malh-tub till it comes off exceeding
fine ; for, unlefe the wort is clear when it goes into the
copper,, there are little hopes it will be fo in the barrel ;
which leifure way obliges him to be fixteen hours in
brewing thefe four bulhels of malt. Now between the
Jadings-over he puts cold warer into the copper to be
boiling hot, while the other is running off; by this means
his copper is kept up near full, and the cock fpending to
the end of brewing his ale or fmall beer, of which only
twenty-one gallons muft be faved of the firft wort that is
referved in a tub, wherein four ounces of hops are put,
and then it is to be let by. For the fecond wort we
will fuppofe there are twenty gallons of water in the
copper boiling hot, that muft be all laded over in the
fame manner as the former was, but no cold water need
her-e be mixed ; when half of this is run out into a tub,
it muft be dire&ly put into the copper with half of the
firft wort, ftrained through the brewing-fieve as it lies on a
fmall wooden loofe frame over the copper, to keep back
thofe hops that were firft put in to preferve it, which is
to make the firft copper twenty-one gallons; then, upon
its beginning to boil, he puts in a pound of hops in one
or two canvas or other coarfe linen - bags, fomewhat
larger than will-juft contain the hops, that an allowance
may be given for their fwell; this he boils away very
brilkly for half an hour, when he takes the hops out and
continues boiling the wort by itfelf till it breaks into par¬
ticles a little ragged, and then it is enough, and muft be
difperfed into the cooling-tubs-very thin: Then put the
remainder of. the firft and fecond wort together, and boil
that the fame time, in the fame manner, and with the
fame quantity of frefh hops, as the firft was. The reft
of the third or fmall-beer wort will be about fifteen or
twenty gallons more or lefs, which he mixes diredly
With fome cold water to keep it free of excife, and puts
it into the copper as the firft- liquor to begin a fecond
brewing of ale, with another four bulhels-of malt as he
did before, and fo on for feveral days together if necef
fury,; and at laft there may be fome fmall-beer made.
T/oe Nature and Ufe of the Hop.
This vegetable was formerly thought to he an un-
W I N G.
wholefome ingredient. Indeed, when the hop, in a dear
time, is adulterated with water, in which aloes, <&c.
have been infufed. in order to make the old hops recover
their bitternefs, and feem new, then they are to be look¬
ed on as unwholefome; but the pure new hop, when
properly managed, has no hurtful qualities. But if the
hops are boiled in ftrong or fmall worts beyond their fine
and pure nature, the liquor fuffers, and will be tanged
with a noxious tafte, both ungrateful and unwholefome
to the ftomach ; and, if boiled to a very great excefs,
they will be apt to caufe teachings. It is for thefe rea-
fons that we advife the boiling two parcels of frefti hops
in each copper of ale-wort; and, if there were three for
keeping beer, it would be fo much the better for the
tafte, health of body, and longer prefervation of the
beer in a found fmooth condition. For this purpofe,
fome make a bag, like a pillowber, and boil the hops
in it half an hour; then take them out, and put in an¬
other bag of the like quantity of frelh hops, and boil
them half an hour more; by which means there is an
opportunity of boiling both wort and hops a due time,
faving the trouble of ftraining them through a fieve, and
fecuring the feeds of the hops at the fame time from
mixing with the drink; afterwards they boil the fame
bags in the fmall beer, till the fubftance of it is got
out; but obferve that the bags be made larger than
what would juft contain the hops, otherwife it will be
difficult to boil out their fubftance. It is true, that
here is a charge increafed by the confumption of a great*-
er quantity of hops than ufual; but then how greatly
will they anfwer the defired end of enjoying fine-pala-
ted wholefome drink, that, in a cheap time, will not a-
mount to much, if bought at thebeft hand; and, if we
confider their after-ufe and benefit in fmall beer, there is
not any lofs at all in their quantity : But, where it can
be afforded, the very fmall beer would be much impro¬
ved if frefh hops were alfo fhifted in the boiling of this
as well as the ftronger worts. Hence may appear the
hardfhips that many are under of being neceffitared to
drink of thofe brewers malt-liquors, who, out of ava¬
rice, boil their hops to the laft, that they may not lofe
any of their quintefience.
After the wort is cooled and put into the working-vat
or tub. fome throw frefh hops into it, and work them
with the yeaft, at the fame time referving a few gallons
of raw wort to wafh the yeaft through a fieve to keep
back the hop This is a good way where enough of hops
have not been fufficiently boiled in the wort, or to pre-
ferve it in the coolers where it is laid thick.
When hops are dear, many ufe the feeds of worm¬
wood inftead of them: Others ufe the daucus or wild?
carrot feed that grows in our common fields, which many
of the poor people gather and dry in their houfes, for the
purpofe of felling them to the brewers: Others ufe bore?
hound, which indeed is a fine bitter, and grows on fe?
veral of our commons.
Hops have a fine grateful bitter, which makes the
drink eafy of digeftion; they alfo keep it from running
into fuch cohefions as would make it ropy, vapid, and
four; and therefore are not only of great ufe in boiled,
but in raw worts, to preferve them found till they can be
put
BREW
put into the copper, and afterwards in the tun, while the
drink is working.
Here then it rauft be obferved, that the earthy part of
the hop is the caufe of that rough, harih, unpleafant
tafte which accompany both ales and beers that have the
hops fo long boiled in them, as to tin&ure their worts
with their mifchievous effedts *, for, notwithftanding the
malt be ever lb good, the hops, if boiled too long in
them, will be fo predominant as to caufe a bad tafte.
Of boiling Malt-liquors.
Although it has been formerly faid, that an hour
and a half is requifite for boiling of Odtober beer, and
an hour for ales and fmall beer; yet it is to be obferved,
that an exadt time is not altogether a certain rule in this
cafe; for, when loofe hops are boiled in the wort fo long
till they all fink, their feeds will arife and fall down
again; the wort alfo will be curdled, and broken into
fmall particles if examined in a hand-bowl, but after¬
wards into larger, as big as great pins heads, and will
appear clean and fine at the top. This is fo much a rule
with fome, that they regard not time, but this fign, to
fhew when the wort is boiled enough ; and this will hap¬
pen fooner or later, according to the nature of the bar--
ley, and its being well malted; for, if it comes off
chalks or gravels, it generally has the good property of
breaking or curdling foon; but, if oflf tough clays, then
it is longer, which, by fome perfons, is not a little va¬
lued, becaufe it faves time in boiling, and confequently
the confumption of the wort.
It is alfo to be obferved, that pale malt-worts will not
break fo foon in the copper as the brown forts; but,
when either of their worts boil, it Ihould be to the pur-
pofe, for then they will break fooner, and wafte lefs,
than if they are kept fimmering, and will likewife work
more kindly in the tun, drink fmoother, and keep longer,
Now all malt-worts may be fpofled by too little or too
much boiling: If too little, then the drink will always
tafte raw, mawkifti, and be unwholefome in the ftomach,
where, inftead of helping to dilute and digeft our food,
it will caufe obftruftions, cholics, head-achs, and other
difeafes: Befides, all fuch under-boiled drinks are cer¬
tainly expofed to ftalenefs and fournefs, much fooner
than thofe that have had their full time in the copper.
And if they are boiled too long, they will then thicken
and not come out of the copper fine and in a right condi
tion which will caufe it never to be right clear in the
barrel.
But to be more particular, no ale-worts, boiled lefs
than an hour, can be good; becaufe, in an hour’s time,
they cannot acquire a thicknefs of body any ways detri¬
mental to them; and, in lefs than an hour, the ramous
vifcid parts of the ale cannot be fufficiently broke and di¬
vided, fo as to prevent its running into cohefions, ropi-
nefs, and fournefs; becaufe in ales there are not hops
enough allowed to do this, which gpod boiling muft in a
great meafure fuppfy, or elfe fuch drink can never be
good; for then its cohefive parts being not thoroughly
broke and comminuted by time and boiling, remain hard.
I N G. <S7i
and in a good meafure indigeftible in the ftomach : How
ignorant then are thofe people, who, in tippling of fuch li¬
quor, can praife it for excellent good ale, only becaufe its
tafte is fweetilh, (which is the nature of fuch raw drinks),
believing it to be the pure efFe<ft of the genuine malt, and
not perceiving the brewer’s avarice and cunning, to fave
the confumption of his wort by Ihortnefs of boiling, tho*
to the great prejudice of the drinker’s health ?
In boiling, both time and the curdling or breaking of
the wort ftiould be confulted ; for if a perfon was to boil
the wort an hour, and then take it out of the copper be¬
fore it was rightly broke, it would be wrong manage¬
ment, and the drink would not be fine and wholefome?;
and if it ftiould boil an hour and a half, or two hours,
without regarding when its particles are in a right order,
then it may be too thick; fo that due care muft be had
to the two extremes, to obtain it in its due order;
therefore, in Oftober and keeping beers, an hour and a
quarter’s good boiling is commonly fufficient to have a
thorough cured drink; for generally in that time it will
break and boil enough ; becaufe in this there is a double
fecurity by length of boiling, and a quantity of hops
ftiifted; but in the new way there is only a Angle one,
and that is by a double or treble allowance of frefti hops
boiled only half an hour in the wort; and for this prac¬
tice a reafon is afligned, that the hops, being endowed
with difcutient apertive qualities, will, by them and
their great quantity, fopply the defe<ft of underboil¬
ing the wort; and that a farther conveniency is here
enjoyed by having only the fine, wholefome, ftrong,
floury, fpirituous parts of the hop in the drink, exclu-
five of the phlegmetic, earthy parts which would be
extracted, if the hops were to be boiled above half an
hour; and therefore there are many now-that are fo at¬
tached to this new method, that they will not brew ale
or beer any other way, thinking, that if hops are boiled
above thirty minutes, the wort will exhibit' fome of their
bad qualities.
The allowance of hops for ale or beer cannot be ex-
aftly adjufted without coming to particulars, becaufe the
proportion ftiould be according to the nature and quality
of the malt, the feafon of the year it is brewed in, and
the length of time it is to be kept.
For ftrong brown ale brewed in any of the winter-
months, and boiled an hour, one pound is but barely
fufficient for a hogftvead, if it be tapped in three weeks
or a month.
If for pale ale brewed at that time, and for that age,
one pound and a quarter of hops; but if thefe ales are
brewed in any of the fommer-months, there ffiould be
more. hops • allowed *
For O&ober or March brown beer, a hogffiead made
fronreleven bnftiels of malt boiled an hour and a quarter,
to-be kept nine months, three pounds and a half ought to
be boiled in fuch-drink at the leaft. .
For October or March pale.beer, made from fourteen
buffiels, boiled an hour and a quarter, and kept twelve
months, fix pounds ought to be allowed to a hogffiead of
foch drink, and more if the hops are ffiifted in two
bags, and lefs time given the wort to boil.
Of
672
BREW
Of Foxing or Fainting Malt-Liquors.
Foxing is a misfortune, or rather a difeafe, in malt-
drinks, occafioned by divers means, as the naftinefs of
the utenlils, putting the worts too thick together in the
backs or coolers, brewing too often and foon one after
another, and fometimes by bad malts and waters, and
the liquors taken in wrong heats, being of fuch perni¬
cious confequence to the great brewer in particular, that
he fometimes cannot recover and bring his matters into a
right order again in lefs than a week or two, and is fo
hateful tq him in its very name, that it is a general law
among them to make all fervants that name the word
Fox or Foxing in the brew-houfe to pay fix-pence, which
obliges them to call it Reynard-, for, when once the
drink is tainted, it may be fmelt at fome difiance fomer
what like a Fox: It chiefly happens in hot weather, and
caufes the beer and ale fo tainted to acquire a fulfome
fickifli tafte, that will, if it is received in a great degree,
become ropy like treacle, and in fome fhort time turn
four.
And here -we ftiall mention the great value of the hop
in preventing and curing the fox in malt-liquors. When
the wort is run into the tub out of the malhing-vat, it is
a very good way to throw fome hops diredtly into it be¬
fore it is put into the copper, and they will fecure it a-
gainft fournefs and ropinefs, that are the two effects of
foxed worts or drinks, and are of fuch power in this
refpett, that raw worts may be kept fome time, even in
hot weather, before they are boiled, and which is ne-
ceflary where there is a large quantity of malt ufed to a
little copper; but it is certain that the ftronger worts
will keep longer with hops than the fmaller forts: So
likewife,, if a perfon has fewer tubs than are , wanted,
and he is apprehenfive his worts will be foxed by too
thick lying in the coolers or working tubs, then it will
be a fafe way to put fome frefli hops into fuch tubs, and
work them with the yeafi, or, in cafe the drink is alrea¬
dy foxed in the vat or tun, new hops Ihould be put in
and worked with it, and they will greatly fetch it again
into-a right order; but then fuch drink ftiould be care¬
fully taken clear off from its grofs nafiy lee, which be¬
ing mofily tainted, would otherwife lie in the barrel, cor¬
rupt, and make it worfe.
Some fift quick-lime into foxed drinks while they are
working in the tun or vat, that its fire and fait may
break the cohefions of the beer or ale, and burn away
the flench that the corruption would always caufe; but
then fuch drink fhould by a peg at the bottom of the
vat be drawn off as fine as poffible, and the dregs left
behind;
O f fermenting and working of Beers and Ales.
Though a fmall quantity of yeaft be neceflary to
ferment and fine the wort; yet it is in itfelf of a poiibn-
ous nature, and if beat into the wort too often or in too
large a quantity, by its flupifying and narcotic quality,
it makes the liquor fo heady, that five bufhels of malt
may be equal in ftrength to fix. But liquor made in
this manner is extremely unwholfome.
I N G.
It is alledged indeed, that beating the yeaft into wort
.gives it a fine relifh, or it makes the ale bite of the yeafi;
but the true reafon is, to further its fale, on account of
its intoxicating quality. But fome people are fo fond of
white thick ale, that they often kill themfelves by drink¬
ing it; nor is their humour much different as to the com¬
mon brewers brown ale, who, when the cuflomer wants
a hogfliead, they put in immediately a handful of fait,
and another of flour, and fo bring it up ; this is ho foon-
er on the Hilling than it is tapped, that it may carry a
froth on the top of the pot, otherwife they defpife it.
See Chemistry, Of fermentation.
Of ’working and fermenting London Stout Beer and Ale.
The yeafi is at once put into the tun to work the
flout-beer and ale with; by this means, and the fhortnefs
of time we have to ferment our ftrong drinks, we can¬
not make referves of cold worts to mix with and check
the too forward working of thofe liquors. The ftrong
beer brewed for keeping is fuffered to be blood-warm in
the winter, when the yeaft is put into it, that it may
gradually work two nights and a day at leaft, for this
will not admit of fuch a hafty operation as the common
brown ale, becaufe, if it is worked too warm and hafty,
-fuch beer will not keep near fo long as that fermented
cooler. The brov/n ale has, indeed, its yeaft put into
it in the evening very warm, becaufe it is often carried
away the very next morning. The pale or amber ales
are often kept near it, not quite a week under fermen¬
tation, for the better incorporating the yeaft with the
wort.
Of forwarding and retarding the Fermentation of Malt-
liquors.
In cafe beer or ale is backward in working, it is cu-
flomary to call fome flour out of the dufting-box, or
with the hand, over the top of the drink, which will be¬
come a fort of cruft or cover to help to keep the cold
out: Others put in one or two ounces of powdered gin¬
ger, which heats the wort and brings it forward: Others
take a gallon ftone-bottle and fill it with boiling waterj
which, being well corked, is put into the working tub,
where it communicates a gradual heat for fome time,
and forwards the fermentation: Others referve fome raw
wort, which they heat and mix with the reft; but then
care mull be taken, that the pot in which it is heated
has no manner of greafe about it, left it Ihould impede,
inftead of promoting the working; but, for retarding and
keeping back any drink that is too much heated in work¬
ing, the cold raw wort is the molt proper of any thing
to check it; though fome are known to put one or more
pewter diihes into it for that purpofe; or, it may be
broke into feveral other tubs, where, by its /hallow ly¬
ing, its fury will be abated. Others again, to make
drink work that is backward, will take the whites of
two eggs, and beat them up with half a quartern of good
brandy, and put it either into the working-vat, or into
the calk, which will quickly bring it forward, if a
warm cloth is put over the bung. Others tie up bran
in a coarfe thin cloth, and put it into the vat, where,'
by its fpongy nature, it abforbs a quantity of the drink,
and breeds a heat to forward its working.
Some
BREW
Some brewers take off all the top yeaft firft, and then,
by a peg near the bottom of the working-tub, draw off
the beer or ale, fo that the dregs are by this means left
behind. This is very right, in ales that are to be drank
foon ; but in beers, that are to lie nine or twelve months
in a butt or other calk, there certainly will be wanted
fome faces or fediments for the beer to feed on, elfe it
muff confequently grow hungry, Iharp, and eager; and
therefore, if its own top or bottom are not put into a
cafic with the beer, fome other artificial compofmon, or
lee, fhould fupply its place, that is wholefomer, and
will better feed with fuch drink, than its own natural
fettlement; and therefore, there are here inferted feveral
receipts for anfwering this end.
Of artificial Lees for Stout or Stale Beer to
feed on.
This article is of very great importance in the cu¬
ring of our malt-liquors. The general misfortune of
the porter or keeping-beers drinking hard and harfh, is
partly owing to the nafty foul faeces that lie at the bot¬
tom of the calk, compounded of the fediments of malt,
hops, and yeaft. Wheat is, by many, put into fuch beer
to feed and preferve it, as being reckoned a fubftantial
alcali; however, it has been proved, that fuch wheat in
about three years time has eat into the very wood of the
calk. Others hang a bag of wheat in the veffel, that it
may not touch the bottom; but, in both cafes, the
wheat is difcovered to abforb and colle<ft the acid quali¬
ties of the beer, yeaft, and hop. Hence it is, that fuch
whole wheat is loaded with the qualities of the unwhole-
fome fettlerrients or grounds of the beer, and becomes of
fuch a corroding nature, as to do mifchief; and, for
that reafon, fome hang a bag of the flour of malted oats,
wheat, peafe, or beans, in the veflels of beer, as being
of a lighter and mellower body than the whole wheat or
its flour, and more natural to the liquor : But whether
it be raw wheat or malted, it is fuppofed, after this re¬
ceptacle has emitted its alcalous properties to the beer,
and taken in all it can of the acid qualities thereof,- that
fuch beer will in time prey upon that again, and fo com¬
municate its pernicious qualities to the liquor.
Compofition for feeding Porter or Keeping-Beers.
Take a quart of French brandy, or as much of En-
glilh, that is free from any burnt tang, or other ill tafte,
and is full proof; to this put as much wheat or bean-
flour as will knead it into dough, put it in long pieces
into the bung-hole, as foon as the beer has done work¬
ing, or afterwards, and let it gently fall piece by piece
to the bottom of the butt; this will maintain the drink
in a mellow freftmefs, keep ftalenefs off for fome time,
and caufe it to be the ftronger as it grows aged.
Another.
Take one pound of treacle, or honey, one pound of
the powder of dried oyfter-ftiells, or fat chalk, mix them
well, and put it into a butt, as foon as it has done work¬
ing, or fome time after, and bung it well; this will both
fine and preferve the beer in a foft, fmooth condition for
a great while.
Vol. I. No. 29.
N G. 673
Another.
Take a peck of egg-fhells, and dry them in an oven,
break and mix them with two pounds of fat chalk, and
mix them with water wherein four pounds of coarfe fu-
gar have been boiled, and put it into the butt as afore-
faid.
'To fine and preferve Beers and Ales, hy boiling an In¬
gredient in the Wort.
In each barrel-copper of wort, put in two quarts of
whole wheat as foon as poflible, that it may foak before
it boils ; then ftrain it through a fieve, and put the wort
in cooling-tubs: Thus there will be extraQed a gluey
confiftence, which, being incorporated with the w-ort by
boiling, gives it a more thick and ponderous body, and,
when in the calk, foon makes a fediment or.lee, as the
wort is more or lefs loaded with the weighty particles of
this fizy body; but if the wheat were firft parched, or
baked in an oven, it would do better, as being rather
too raw as it comes from the ear.
To flop the Fret in Malt-liquors.
Take a quart of black cherry-brandy, and pour it in
at the bung-hole of the hogftiead, and ftop it clofe.
To recover deadijh Beer.
When ftrong drink grows flat, by the lofs of its fpi-
rits, take four or five gallons out of a hogihead, and
boil it with five pounds of honey, fltim it, and, when
cold, put it to the reft, and ftop it up clofe: This will
make it pleafant, quick, and ftrong.
To make fiale Beer drink new.
Take the herb horehound, ftamp it and ftrain it,
then put a fpoonful of the juice (which is an extreme
good peftoral) to a pitcher full of beer; let it ftand co¬
vered about two hours, and drink it.
To fine Malt-liquors.
Take a pint of water, half an ounce of unflacked
lime, mix them well together; let it ftand three hours,
and the lime will fettle to the bottom, and the water
be as clear as glafs; pour the water from the fediment,
and put it into your ale or beer; mix it with half an
ounce of ifing-glafs, firft cut fmall and boiled; and in
five hours time, or lefs, the beer in the barrel will fettle
and be clear.
Receipt for making Balls for fining, feedmg, pre¬
ferring, relifinng, and colouring Malt Drinks,
Wines, and Cyders.
Brown Balls.
Alabaster, or marble calcined into a powder, two
pound?. Oyfter-lhells, a little calcined and freed from
their brown or dirt-coloured out-fide, one pound.
Pure fat chalk, well dried, one pound. Horfe-bean
flour, firft freed from the hulls, one pound. Red faun-
ders, four ounces. Grains of paradife, half an ounce.
Florentine orrice-root, half an ounce. Coriander-feed,
a quarter of an ounce. Cloves, in number fix. Hops,
half an ounce. The beft ftaple incifed ifing-glafs, two
ounces. The firft runnings of the moloffes, or treacle,
two pounds.
f 8 H
3
Pale
674
B R E ^
VaU Balls,
Are made in the fame manner, and with the like
quantity of every thing, except a pound or two of fine
fugar made into a fytup, inftead of the molofles, and o-
mitting the faunders.
N. B. The powders are to be pretty fine, and the
balls dried very gradually without heat for the fir ft three
or four days upon brown paper laid over a large fieve
bottom, and turned often. Afterwards they may be put
into the fun, or at a proper diftance from the fire, in or¬
der to dry them thoroughly; and the quantity of the
hops may be augmented, or wholly omitted, at difcre-
tionj according as the liquor requires.
Put as much water to your glafs as will juft cover it,
in order to open its body, letting it ftand fo twelve
hours; then add the following iniufion to it, and gra¬
dually diflblve the whole over a gentle fire. Then
ftrain it off hot among fome of the powder, adding the
reft by a little at a time, with fome of the treacle or fy-
ru.p likewile alternately, till you beat the whole into a
ftiff mafs, out of which form balls weighing four oun¬
ces each.
The infufton.—Pour a pint of boiling water upon the
coriander-feed, and cloves bruifed, and the hops well
rubbed. Cover them clofe, and let it ftand twelve
hours, then ftrain for the ufe aforefaid.
The number of balls for each cajk.—Powder one of
the balls and put it into a pin or half a firkin; into a
firkin, two; into a kilderkin, three; into a barrel, fix;
and fo on in proportion as the caflc is larger or lefler,
ftirring them well in; and, if the liquor has age enough,
fo that it will bear racking, it fnould be firft ferved fo,
^nd then, they will anlwer much better.
Of the Cellar or Kepofitory for keeping Beers
and Ales.
It is certain, that the weather has not only a power
Or influence in brewing, but alfo after the drink is in the
barreh hogfhead, or butt, in cellars, or other places,
which is often the caufe of forwarding or retarding the
finenefs.of malt-liquors; for if we brew in cold weather,
and the drink is to ftand in a- cellar of clay, or where
fprings rife, or water? lie or pafs through foch a place, ■
thefe will check the due courfe of the drink, chill, flat,
deaden, and kinder it from becoming fine, So likewife, if
beer or ale is btewed in hot weather, and put into chalky,
gravelly, or fandy cellars, and efpecially if the windows
open to the fouth, fouth-eaft, or fouth-wefl, then it is
very likely it will not keep long, but be muddy and ftale.:
Therefore, to keep beer in fuch a cellar, it fhould be
brewed in Oclober, that the drink may have time torcure
itfeif before the hct weather comes on ; but, in wettifh
or damp cdlais, it is beft to brew in March, that the
drink may have time to fine and fettle before the winter
weather is advanced. Now, cellars fhould have double
or treble doors, that the outer one may be fhut before
the inner one is opened, to keep tb'e air out. If a cellar
be kept dry,, and have double doors, it is reckoned
warm in winter, and cool in fummer. But the beft of
celiata are thought to be thofe in chalks, gravels, or
v r n g.
fands; and particularly in chalks, which are of a drying
quality more than any other, and confequently diflipate
damps ; which contributes much to the gook keeping of
the drink, for all damp cellars are prejudicial to the pre-
fervation olrbeeis and ales, and fooner bring on the rot¬
ting of the calks and hoops than the dry ones. Befides,
in fuch inclofed cellars and temperate air, the beers and
ales ripen more kindly, are better digefted and foftened,
and drink imoother : But, when the temperature of the
air in the cellar is unequal, the drink foon grows ftale.
Though malt-liquor be truly brewed, yet it is often fpoil-
ed in a bad cellar, that occafions fuch alternate ferment¬
ations as to make it thick and four, though it fometimes
happens that after fuch changes it fines itfeif again.
To prevent thefe commotions of the beer, fome brew their
pale malt In March, and their brown in Odober; be-
caufe the pale malt, having not fo many fiery particles in
it as the brown, ftancis more in need of the fummer’s
weather to ripen it, while the brown fort, being more
hard and dry, is better able to defend itfeif agatnft the
winter-colds that will help to fmooth its harfh particles ;
yet, when they happen to be too violent, horfe dung
fhould be laid to the windows as a fortification a^ainft
them.
Some are of opinion, that Odober is the beft of all o-
ther months to brew any fort of malt in, by reafon there
are fo many cold months diredly following, that will di-
geft the drink and make it much excel that brewed in
March, becaufe fuch beer will not want that care and
watching, as that brewed in March abfolutely requires,
by often taking out and putting in the vent-peg on change
of weather ; and, if it is always left out, then it dead¬
ens and palls the drink; yet, if due care is not taken
in this relped, a thunder or ftdrmy night may marr all,
by making the drink ferment and burft the calk; for
which reafon, as iron hoops are moft in fafhion at this
time, they are certainly the greateft fecurity to the fafe-
ty of the drink thus expofed; and next to them is the
chefnut-hoop; both which will endure a fhorter or longer
time, as the cellar is more or lefs dry, and according to the
management attending them: The iron hoops generally
begin to ruff firft at the edges, and therefore fhould be
rubbed off, and be kept from wet as much as poffible.
Of Cleaning and Sweetening of Cafks.
In cafe your cafk is a butt, then with cold water rinfe
out the lees clean, and have ready boiling or very hot
water, which put in, and, with a long ftale and a little
birch faftened to its end, fcrub the bottom as well as you
can: At the fame time let there be provided another
fhorter broom of about a foot and a half long, that with
one hand may be fo employed in the upper and other
parts as to clean the calk well : So in a hogfhead, or
other fmaller veffel, the one-handed fhort broom may be
ufed with water, or with water, fand, or afhes, and be
effeflually cleaned; the outfide of the, cafk about the
bung-hole fhould be well walked, left the yeaft, as it
works over, carry fome of its filth with it.
But, to iweeten a barrel, kilderkin, firkin, or pin, in
the great brewhoufes, they put them over the copper-
hole
B R E
bole for a night together, that the fleam of the boiling
water or wort may penetrate into the wood ; this way is
lueh a furious fearcher, that unlei's the calk is new-hoop¬
ed juft before, it will be apt to fall to pieces.
Another Way.
Take a pottle, or more, of ftone-lime, and put it into
the calk ; on this pour fome water, and flop it up di-
reftly, {baking it w^l about.
Another Way.
Take a long linen rag, and dip it in melted brim-
ftone; light it at the end, and let it hang pendant with
the upper part of the rag faflened to the wooden bung;
this is a mofl quick and fure way, and will not only
fweeten, but help to fine the drink.
Another.
Or, to make your cafk more pleafant, you may ufe
the vintners way thus: Take four ounces of fione brim-
ftone, one ounce of burnt allum, and two ounces of
brandy; melt all thefe in an earthen pan over hot coals,
and dip therein a piece of new canvas, and inftantly
fprinkle thereon the powders of nutmegs, cloves, cori¬
ander, and anife feeds: this canvas fet on fire, and let it
burn hanging in the cafk faflened at the end with the
wooden bung, fo that no fmoke comes out.
For a .uujiy Cajk.
Boil fome pepper in water, and fill the cafk with it
fcalding hot.
To prepare a new Vejfsl to keep Malt-liquors in.
A new veflel is mofl improperly ufed by.fome ignorant
B R E
BREY, a town of the bifhopric of Liege, in Germany,
about fixteen miles north of Maeftricht; E. long. 50
40', and M lat. 51° 15'.
BREYNIA, in botany, a fynonime of the capparis.
See Capparis.
BRIANCON, a town of Dauphiny, in France, fituated
about forty-five miles fouth-eafl of Grenoble; E.
long. 6° 20', and N. lat. 440 $d.
BRIAR, in botany, the Englifh name of a fpecies of
rofa. See Rosa.
BRIARE, a town of the Ifle of France, fituated on the
river Loire, about feventy-five miles fouth of Paris ;
E. long. 20 4J/, andN. lat 47° 4c/.
BRIBE, a gift given to a perfon for doing or forbearing
any action that he ought to do or. forbear.
BUIRERY. See Law.
BRICIANI, thofe of the order of that name. This
was a military order, inflituted by St- Bridget, queen
of Sweden, who gave them the rules and conflitutions
of thofe of Malta and St AugufHn. This order was
approved by pope Urban V. They were to fight for
the burying of the dead, to relieve and .aflUt.widows,
orphans, the lame, fick, d <v
V' I N G. 675
people for firong driek, after only once or twice fcalding
with water; which is fo wrong, that fuch beer or ale
will not fail of tailing thereof for half, if not a whole
year afterwards. To prevent this inconvenience, when
your brewing is over, put up fome water fcalding hot,
and let it run through the grains; then boil it and fill up
the cafk, flop it weii, and let it ftand till it is cold; do
this twice; then take the grounds of ftrong drink and
boil in it green walnut-leaves and new hay or wheat-
flraw, and put alt into the cafk, that it be full, and flop
it clofe: After this, ufe it for fmall beer half a year to¬
gether, and then it will be thoroughly fweet and fit for
ftrong drinks.
Wine-cajks.
These are the cheapeft of all others to furnifh a per¬
fon readily with, as being many of them good calks for
malt-liquors, becaufe the fack and white-wine forts are
already feafoned to hand, and will greatly improve beers
and ales that are put in them : But beware of the Rhe-
nilh wine cafks for ftrong drinks ; for its wood is fo tinc¬
tured with this fharp wine, that it will hardly ever be
free of it; and therefore fuch cafk is heft ufed for fmall
beer: the claret calk will a great deal fooner be brought
into a ferviceable ftate for holding ftrong drink, if it is
two or three times fcalded with grounds of barrels, and
afterwards ufed for fmall beer for fome time. But to
cure a claret-calk of its colour and tafte, put a peck of
ftone-lime into a hoglhead, and pour upon it three pails
of water; bung immediately with a wooft or cork-bung,
and lhake it well about a quarter of an hour, and let it
ftand a day and night, and it will bring off the red co¬
lour, and alter the tafte of the calk very much. .
B R I
BRICK, a fat reddilh earth, formed into long fquares, .
four inches broad, and eight or nine long, by means
of a wooden mould, and then baked or burnt in a
kiln, to fervethe purpoles of building.
Bricks are of great antiquity, as appears by the fa-
cred. writings', the tower and walls of Babylon being
with them.
In the eaft, they baked their bricks in the fun ; the
Romans ufed them unburnt, only leaving them to dry
for four or five years in the air.
The Greeks chiefly'ufed three kinds of bricks ; the
firll whereof was called [didoron,'] i. e. of two palms ;
the fecond, \tetrad6rori\, of four palms ; the third,
\_pentad4rori\, of five palms. They had alfo other
bricks, juft half each of thofe, to render their works
more folid, and. alfo more .agreeable to'the fight, by
the diverfities of the figures and lizes of the bricks.
Pliny fays, that to make good bricks they mull not
con fill of any earth that is full of fand or gravel, nor
of fuch as is gritty or ftony; but of a greyifh. marl,
or whitilh chalky clay, or at lealt of a reddilh earth :
He alfo adds, that the beft feafoa for making, bricks
is the fpring; becaufe, if made in fummer, they will
be.
B R I ( 676 ) B R I
be fubjeft to crack, and be full, of chinks. He di¬
rects, that the loam of v/hich bricks are made be welt
fteeped and wrought with water.
Bricks, among us, are various, according to their va¬
rious forms, dimenfions, ufes, method of making, &c.
the principal of which are, Cotnpafs-bricks^ of a circu¬
lar form, ufed in iteyning of wails : Concave, or hol¬
low bricks, on one fide fiat like a common brick, on
the other hollowed, and ufed for conveyance of wa¬
ter : Feather-edged bricks, which are like common
datute bricks, only thinner on one edge than the 0-
ther, and ufed for penning up the brick pannels in
timber buildings: Cogging bricks are ufed for making
the indented works under the caping of walls built
with great bricks : Caping bricks, formed on purpofe
for caping of walls: Dutch or Flemifh bricks, ufed to
pave yards, dables, and for foap-boilers vaults and
ciderns: Clinkers, fuch bricks as are glazed by the
heat of the fire in making : Sandel or famel-bricks,
are fuch as lie outmolf in a kiln, or clamp, and con-
fequently are foft and ufelefs, as not being thoroughly
burnt: Great bricks are thofe twelve inches long, fix
broad, and three thick, ufed to build fence-walls:
Plaider or buttrefs bricks, have a notch at one end,
half the breadth of the brick ; their ufe is to bind the
work which is built of great bricks : Statute-bricks or
fmall common bricks, ought, when burnt, to be nine
inches long, four and a quarter broad, and two and a
half thick ; they are commonly ufed in paving cellars,
fiaks, hearths, fee.
Bricks are burnt either in a kiln or clamp. Thofe
that are burnt in a kiln, are fird fet or placed in it,
and then the kiln being covered with pieces of bricks,
they put in feme wood to dry them with a gentle fire ;
and this they continue till the bricks are pretty dry,
which is known by the fmoke’s turning from a darkilh
colour to a tranfparent fmoke: They then leave off
putting in wood, and proceed to make ready for burn¬
ing, which is performed by putting in brufli, furze,
fpray, heath, brake, or fern-faggots; but before they
put in any faggots, they dam up the mouth or mouths
of the kiln with pieces of bricks (which they call Jbin-
log) piled up one upon another, and clofe it up with
wet brick-earth, indead of mortar.
The ftiinlog they make fo high, that there is but
jud room above it to thrud in a faggot; then they
proceed to put in more faggots, till the kiln and its
arches look white, and the fire appears at the top of
the kiln ; upon which they flacken the fire for an
hour, and let-all cool by degrees. This they continue
to do, alternately heating and flacking, till the ware
be thoroughly burnt, which is ufually effected in forty-
eight hours.
About London they chiefly burn in clamps, built of
the bricks themfelves, after the manner of arches in
kilns, with a vacancy between each brick, for the fire
to play through; but wdth this difference, that indead
of arching, they fpan it over by making the bricks
projeft one over another on both fides of the place,
for the wood and coals to lie in till they meet, and are
bounded by the bricks at the top, which clofe all up.
The place for the fuel is carried up drait on both
fides, till about three feet high ; then they almod fill
it with wood, and over that lay a covering of fea-coal,
and then overfpan the arch; but they drew fea-coal
alfo over the clamp, betwixt all the rows of bricks;
ladly, they kindle’ the wood, which gives fire to the
coal ; and when ail is burnt, then they conclude the
bricks are diffidently burnt.
Oil c/'Bricks, olive oil imbibed by the fubdance of
bricks, and afterwards diddled from it. This oil was
once in great repute for curing many difeafes, but is
now entirely laid afide.
BRICKING, among builders, the counterfeiting of a
brick-wall on plader, which is done by fmearing
it over with red ochre, and making the joints with an
edged tool; thefe lad are afterwards filled with a fine
plader.
BR.IDE, a woman newly married. Among the Greeks
it was cudomary for the bride to be conduced from
her father’s houfe to her hulband’s in a chariot, the
evening being chofen for that purpofe, to conceal her
bluffies; ffie was placed in the middle, her hufband
fitting on one fide, and one of her mod intimate
friends on the other; torches were carried before her,
and ffie was entertained in the pafiage with a fong da¬
table to the occafion. When they arrived at their
journey’s end, the axle-tree of the coach they rode in
was burnt, to fignify that the bride w^s never to re¬
turn to her father’s houfe. Among the Romans, when
a bride was carried home to her hufband’s houfe, ffie
was not to touch the threfliold at her fird entrance,
but was to leap over it.
BRIDEGROOM, a man newly married, the fpoufe of
the bride.
The Spartan bridegrooms committed a kind of rape
upon their brides; for matters being agreed on be¬
tween them two, the woman that contrived and ma¬
naged the match, having ffiaved the bride’s hair clofe
to her Ikin, dreffed her up in man’s cloaths, and left
her upon a mattrefs; this done, in came the bride-
grpom, in his ufual drefs, having dipped as ordinary,
and dealing as privately as he could to the room where
the bride lay, and untying her virgin-girdle, took her
to his embraces ; and having dayed a ffiort time with
her, returned to his companions, with whom he con¬
tinued to fpend his life, remaining with them by night
as well as by day, unlefs he dole a diort vifit to his
bride, which could not be done without a great deal
of circumfpe&ion, and fear of being difeovered.
BRIDEWELL, a work-houfe, or place of correction
for vagrants, drumpets, and other diforderly perfons.
Thefe are made to work, being maintained with
cloathing and diet; and when it feems good to their
governors, they are fent by pafles into their native
countries: however, while they remain here, they are
not only made to work, but, according to their crimes,
receive, once a-fortnight, fuch a number of dripes as
the governor commands. Yet to this hofpital feveral
hopeful and ingenious lads are put apprentices, and
prove afterwards honed and fubdantial citizens.
BRIDGE, a work of mafonry or timber, confiding of
one
B R I
one or more arches, built over a river, canal, or
the like, for the conveniency of crofling the lame.
Bridges are a fort of edifices very difficult to exe¬
cute, on account of the inconvenience of laying foun¬
dations, and walling under water. The parts of a
bridge are the piers, the arches ; the pavement, or
way over for cattle and carriages; the foot-way on
each fide, for foot paflengers • the rail or parapet,
which inclofes the whole; and the hutments or ends
of the bridge on the bank.
The conditions required in a bridge are, that it be
well-defigned, commodious, durable, and fuitably de¬
corated. The piers of Hone-bridges ffiould be equal
in number, that there may be one arch in the middle,
where commonly the current is ftrongell; their thick-
nefs is not to be lefs than a fixth part of the fpan of
the arch, nor more than a fourth ; they are common¬
ly guarded in the front with angular Her lings, to break
the force of the current: the ftrongeft arches are thofe
whofe fweep is a whole femicircle; as the piers of brid¬
ges always diminiffi the bed of a river, in cafe of inunda¬
tions, the bed mull be funk or hollowed in proportion
to the fpaee taken up by the piers (as the waters gain
in depth what they lofe in breadth) which otherwife
conduce to waffi away the foundation and endanger the
piers: To prevent this, they fometimes diminiffi the
current, either by lengthening its courfe, or by ma¬
king it more winding ; or by Hopping the bottom with
rows of planks, Hakes, or piles, which break the
current. It is alfo required that the foundation of
bridges be laid at that feafon of the year, when the
waters are lowefl; and if the ground be rocky, hard
gravel, or flony, the firfl Hones of the foundation
may be laid on the furface; but if the foil be foft fand,
it will be neceflary to dig till you come to a firm bot-
Among the bridges of antiquity, that built by Tra¬
jan over the Danube is allowed to be the moH magni¬
ficent ; it was compofed of twenty arches, of an hun¬
dred and fifty feet in height, and their opening from
one pier to another was an hundred and fixty feet:
The piers of this fine bridge are Hill to be feen in the
Danube, being eredled between Servia and Moldavia,
a little above Nicopolis.
• Among modern bridges, that of WefiminHer, built
over the river Thames, may be accounted one of the
fined in the world: It is forty-four feet wide, a com¬
modious foot-way being allowed for paffengers, on
each fide, of about feven feet broad, raifed above the
road allowed for carriages, and paved with broad
moor-Hones, while the fpace left between them is fuf-
ficient to admit three carriages and two horfes to go
a-breaH, without any danger. Its extent from wharf
to wharf is 1220 or 1223 feet, being full three hun¬
dred feet longer than London-bride. The free wa¬
ter- way under the arches of this bridge is eight hun¬
dred and feventy feet, being four times as much as
the free'water-way left between the Herlings of Lon-
don-bridge: This difpofition, together with the gen-
tlenefs of the fiream, are the chief reafons why no
fenfible fall of water can ever flop, or in the leafl
Vox.. I. Numb. 29. 3
B R U
endanger the fmallefl boats in their palfage through
the arches.
It confifls of thirteen large and two fmall arches,
together with fourteen intermediate piers.
Each pier terminates with a faliant right angle a-
gainft either flream : the two middle piers are each fe-
venteen feet in thicknefs at the fpringing of the
arches, and contain three thoufand cubic feet, or near
two hundred tons of folid Hone; and the others de-
\:reafe in width equally on each fide by one foot.
All the arches of this bridge are femicircular; they
all fpring from about two feet above low-water mark j
the middle arch is feventy-fix feet wide, and the o-
thers decreafe m breadth equally on each fide by four
feet.
This bridge is built of the befl materials ; and the
fize and difpofition of thefe materials are fiich, that
there is no falfe bearing, or fo much as a falfe joint in
the whole flrudure ; befides that, it is built in a neat
and elegant tafle, and with fuch fimplicity and gran¬
deur, that, whether viewed from the water, or by
the paffengers who walk over it, it fills the mind with
an agreeable furprize. The femiodcangular towers,
which form the receffes of the foot-way, the manner
of placing the lamps, and the height of the baluflrade,
are at once the mofl beautiful, and, in every other
refpedt, the befl contrived.
But the mofl fingular bridge in Europe is that built
over the river Taye in Glamorganffiire. It confifts
of one Hupenduous arch, the diameter of which is
175 feet, the chord 140, the altitude 35, and the
abutments 32. This magnificent arch was built by
William Edward,, a poor country-mafon, in the year
17 5 6;
Bridges are either built of Hone or timber, as is
judged mofl convenient.
<S7<?7ze-B ridges confifl of piers, arches, and hutments,
made of hewn ftone, fometimes alfo intermixed with
bricks.
/EWe»-B ridges are compofed of beams and joifls,
fupported by punchions, well cramped and bound
together.
/?a/&e»-Bridges are made of great bundles of ruflres,
bound faft together, over which planks are laid, and
faftened: thele are put over marffiy places, to ferve
for a crofling ground.
Pendent or ^«^/«^-Bridges, called alfo philofophical
bridges, are thpfe not fupported by pofls or pillars,
but hung at large in the air, fuftained only at the two
ends or butments.
Draw-Bridge-, one that is faftened with hinges at one
end only, fo that the other may be drawn up; in
which cafe, the bridge Hands upright, to hinder the
paffage of a ditch or moat.
Flying or floating Bridge, is generally made of two
fmall bridges, laid one over the other in fuch a man¬
ner, that the uppermoft ftretches and runs out, by
help of certain cords, running through pullies placed
along the fides of the under bridge, which puffi it for¬
wards, till the end of it joins the place it is intended
to be fixed on,
f 81 Bridges
( *77 )
B R I ( 67$ ) B R I
Bridge of boats, boats made of copper, and joined fide
by fide, till they reach a-crofs a river, which being co¬
vered with planks, are faftehed with (lakes or anchors.
Bridge of communication is that made over a river,
by which two armies, or forts, which are feparated
by that river, have a free communication with one a-
nother.
Floating Bridge, a bridge made ufe of, in form of a
work in fortification, called a redoubt, confiding of
two boats, covered with planks, which are foiidly
framed, fo as to bear either horfe or cannon.
Bridge, in gunnery, the two pieces of timber w'hich
go between the two tranfums of a gun-carriage, on
which the bed reds.
Bridge, in mufic, a term for that part of a ftringed
indrument over which the drings are dretched. The
bridge of a violin is about one inch and a quarter
high, and near an inch and a half long.
Bridge-town, the capital of the idand of Barbadoes :
Wed ion. 56°, and North lat. 130. It has commo¬
dious wharfs for unlading goods, alfo fome forts and
cadles for the defence of the place.
Bridge-north, a borough-town of Shropdiire, fitua-
ted on the river Severn, about fifteen miles fouth-ead
of Shrewfbury: Wed Ion. 20 30,, and North lat. 520
40'. It fends two members to parliament.
Bridgewater, a large borough-town of Somerfet-
(hire, fituated near the mouth of the river Evil, in 30
Wed long, and 510 1 y' North lat. It fends two
members to parliament.
BRIDLE, in the menage, a contrivance made of draps
or thongs of leather and pieces of iron, in order to
keep a horfe in fubjeftion and obedience.
The feveral parts of a bridle are the bit,, or fnafHe;
the head-dail, or leathers from the top of the head
to the rings of the bit; the fillet, over the fore-head
and under the fore-top ; the throat-band, which but¬
tons from, the head-band under the throat; the reins,
or long thongs of leather that come from the rings of
the bit, and being cad over the horfe’s head, the rider
holds them in his hand ; the nofe band, going through
loops at the back of the head-dali, and buckled under
the cheeks ; the trench ; the cavefan; the martingal;
and the chaff halter.
Bridles imported pay a duty of 4 s. 9-fygd. the do¬
zen ; whereof 4 s.. 3T-igd. is repaid on exporting
them again: befides which they alfo pay 6 s. for eve¬
ry 20 3. value upon-oath,, without any drawback.
Bridle-hand is the horfeman’s left hand, the right
hand being the fpear or fv/ord hand.
To fwallonn the Bridle, is faid of a horfe that has too
wide a mouth,, and too fmall a bit-mouth.
BRIDON, or Snaffle, after the Englilh fafliion, is a
very (lender bit-mouth, without any branches. The
Englifh make much ufe of them, and fcarcely ufe any
true bridles except in the fervice of war. The French
call them bridons, by way of diftindtion from bridles.
BRIDPORT, a borough and port-town of Dorfetfhire,
fituated about ten miles weft of Dorchefter; W. long,
30, and N. lat. .
It feuds two members to parliament.
BRIEF, in Scots law, a writ iffued from the chancery,
diredted to any judge-ordinary, commanding and au-
thorifing that judge to call a jury to inquire into the
cafe mentioned in the brief, and upon their verdidl to
pronounce fentence.
Apofolical Briefs, letters which the pope difpatches
to princes, or other magiftrates, relating to an'y public
affair.
Thefe briefs are diftinguifhed from bulls, in re¬
gard the latter are more ample, and always written on
parchment, and fealed with lead or green wax; where¬
as briefs are very concife, written on paper, fealed
with red wax, and with, the feal of the fiftierman, or
St Peter in a boat.
BRIEG, a town of Silefia, about twenty miles fouth-
eaft of Brellaw ; E. long. 170 10 , and N. lat. yo° yc/.
BRIENNOIS, the fouthern divifion of the duchy of
Burgundy, in France,
BRIEUX, a port-towa of Britany, in France, fituated
on the Englilh channel, about thirty miles weft of St
Malo; W. long. 50, and N. lat. 48° 40'.
BRIGADE, in the military art, a party or divifion of a
body of foldiers, whether horfe or foot, under the
command of a brigadier.
An army is divided into brigades of horfe and bri¬
gades of foot: a brigade of horfe is a body of eight
or ten fquadrons; a brigade of foot confifts of four,
five, or fix battalions.
The eldeft brigade has the right of the firft line,
and the fecond the right of the fecond, and the two
next take the left of the two lines, and the youngeft
(land in the centre.
Brigade-major., is an officer appointed by the briga¬
dier, to affift him in the management and ordering of
his brigade.
BRIGADIER is the general officer who has the com¬
mand of a brigade. The eldeft colonels are generally
advanced to this poft. He that is upon duty is briga¬
dier of the day. They march at the bead of their
own brigades, and are allowed a ferjeant and ten men
of their own brigade for their guard.
Brigadiers, and Sub-brigadiers, are polls in the
horfe-guards.
BRIGANDINE, a coat of mail, a kind of ancient de-
fenlive armour, confiding of thin jointed fcales of
plate, pliant and eafy to the body.
BRIGANTINE, a fmall light veffel, which can both
row and fail well, and is either for fighting or giving
chace. It hath about twelve or fifteen benches for
the rowers, one man to a bench; ail the hands aboard
are foldiers, and each man hath his mufquet lying:
ready under his oar.
BRIGG, a market-town in Lincolnffiire, about twenty-
four miles north of Lincoln ; W. long. 20 , and N.
lat. 53° 40'.
BRIGHTELMSTONE, a little port-town in Sufiex,
about feven miles fduth-weft of Lewes; W. long, io',
and N-. lat. yo° yc/i
BRIHUEGA, a town of New Caftile, in Spain, about
forty-three miles north-eaft of Madrid; W. Jong. 3°
2a, andN. lat. 410.
BRILL,
B R I ( 679 ) B R I
BRILL, or Briel, the capital of the ifland of Voorn, The whillters of cats are alfc fometimes called br:-
in Holland, fituated about twelve miles fouth ©f the files ; as are the quills of the porcupine.
Hague; E lohg. 40, and N. lat. 510 50'. BRISTOL, a city and port-town of England, fituated"
BRILLIANT, in a general fenfe, fomething that has partly in Gloucefterlhire, and partly in Somerfetfttire ;
a lucid and bright appearance. W. long. 2° 40', and N. lat. ji0 gc/.
Brilliant, in the menage, a brilk, high-mettled. It ftands on the river Avon, about ninety miles weft
(lately horfe, is called brilliant, as having a railed of London, and is a town of the greateft foreign trade
neck, a fine motion, excellent haunches, upon which of any in Britain next to London. It is alfo a bifhop’s
he rifes, though never fo little put on. fee, fends two members to parliament, and gives the
BRIM denotes the utmoft verge or edge, efpecially of title of earl to the noble family of Harvey.
round things. JVe’ui Bristol, the capital of the county of Bucks, in
Brim, in country affairs. A fow is faid to brim, or to Penfilvania, about twenty miles north of Philadelphia,
go to brim, when (he is ready to take boar. It is fituated on the river Delaw-ar, in 750 W. long.
BRIMSTONE. See Sulphur, and Chemistry.
BrimSTONE-»z«r£/e. See Marble.
BRIN, a city of Moravia, dependent on Bohemia, a-
bout thirty miles fouth-weft of Olmutz : E. long. 160
20/, and N. lat. 490 4c/.
BRINDISI, a port-town of the kingdom of Naples, fi¬
tuated on the gulph of Venice, about thirty-five miles
north-weft of Otranto; E. long. 180 45/, andN. lat.
40° 40 . ,
BRINE, water replete with faline particles ; or pickle.
BRiNE-w/ff, a fait water, which being boiled, turns
into fait.
Brine taken out of brine-pits, or brine-pans, ufed
by fome for curing or pickling of filh, without boiling
the fame into fait, and rock-fait without refining it in¬
to white-falt, are prohibited by 1 Anne, cap. xxi.
BRINGING-IN a horfe, in the menage, the fame as to
fay, keep down the nofe of a horfe that boars, and
toffes his nofe in the wind ; this is done by means of a
good branch. See Banquet, and Wind.
BRION, an ifland of North America, in the gulph of
St Lawrence.
BRIONES, a fmall town of Old Caftile, in Spain, fi¬
tuated on the river Ebro.
BRIONI, the name of three iflands in the Adriatic fea,
upon the weftern coaft of Iftria. They belong to die
Republic of Venice.
BRIONNE, a town of Normandy, in France, fituated
on the Rill, about ten leagues from Rouen.
BRISAC, a fortified town of Swabia, in Germany, fi¬
tuated on the eaftern fhore of: the river Rhine, about
thirty miles north of Strafburg ; E. long. 70 15','and
N. lat. 48° to'.
jV<?w Brisac, a fortrefs on the weftern fhore of the
Rhine, oppofite to Old Brifac. It is fituated in Al-
face, and belongs to the French.
BRISGOW, a territory of the circle of Swabia, in
Germany, fituated on the eaft fide of the Rhine, op¬
pofite to the Upper Alface, whereof Fribourg and Bri¬
fac are the chief towns.
BRISTLE, a rigid glofly kind of hair, found on fwine,
and much ufed by brulhmakers,
Briftles, rough and undreffed, pay a duty of x s-.
2 rod. the dozen pound, whereof 1 s. -j^gd. is drawn-
hack on exporting them ; whereas drefied briftles pay
a duty of as. 4-^^. the dozen pound, whereof 2s-
l.iA75d. is drawn back, on exportation.
and 40° 45 N. lat,
Brj stol Thefe waters are the fourth in de¬
gree amongft the waters which are efteemed warm.
The waters of Bath are the firfl, Buxton the fecond,
and Matlock the third.
Bath waters are beneficial, when the fecretions from
the blood are diminifhed ; Briftol, when too much in-
creafed: Bath attenuates powerfully; Briftol incraf-
Ltes : Bath is fpirituous, and helps defe<5Is ; . Briftol
is more cooling, and fupprefles plentitude, with its
confequences, inflammations and haemorrhages.
If we may judge of the contents of Briftol waters,,
from their effe<5b, which are exceedingly deterfive and
healing ; they partake chiefly of chalk, lapis calcarius,
and caiaminaris, the virtues of which are too dry to
cleanfe; they fill ulcers with flefh, and cicatrize them.
But whatever, the fubftances are that impregnate
them, it is.plain, they are very fubtile, and that there
is but little of a terreftrial part in them, from their
fpeciiic lightnels above other waters: Yet when v/e
confider how agreeable to the .fight, fmdl and tafte •
bow clear, pure and foft they are; their gentle degree
of heat, fo adapted to fundry difeafes ; it muft be con¬
cluded, that thofe waters do imbibe fome falutary par-
ticks in their paffage through the earth ; and, from
the many cures yearly wrought by them, that they
have an undoubted tittle to a place in the firft clafs. of
medicinal waters.
7'he difeafes in which Briftol waters are properly
prefcribed, are internal haemorrhages and inflamma¬
tions, blood-fpitting,. dyfentery, and immoderate flux
ofthe menfes, purulent ulcers of the vifcera : Hence,,
in confumptions, the dropfy, fcurvy with heat, ftone,
gravel, ftrangury; the habitual gout, fcorbutic rheu-
matifm, diabetes, flow- fevers, atrophy, pox,. cancer,.
gleets in both fexes, king’s evil, &c.; in all thefe difor-
ders, Bath waters are not only improper,.but hurtful;
they roufe the too languid,, and quicken the too lazy
circulation; they allay the'heat, and reftrain the too
rapid motion of the blood. Thofe impregnate the
phlegmatic, tbefe attemperate the choleric conftitution.
Bath water feems to be adapted to the maladies of the
ftomach, guts, and nerves; Briftol, to- thofe of the
lungs, kidneys, and bladder: Again, Bath waters are
at variance with a milk courfe ; and the Briftol tan
never be judicioufly directed, but when, they may be
joined, with reafon and fuccefs.
Thsc
B R O , f 680 > B R O
The Briflol waters are taken medicinally only du¬
ring the hot months, as from April to September.
Bs-isroL-yfower, in botany, a name fometimes given to
the lichnis. See Lichnis.
BRITAIN, orGreat-britain, the moft confiderable
of all the European iflands, lies between 50° and 6o°
N. lat. and between 20 E. long, and 6° W. long.
The general divifion of Britain, is into South and
North Britain, or England and Scotland.
New Britain, a large country of North America,
called alfo Terra Labrador, has Hudfon’s bay and
flrait on the north and weft; Canada and the river of
St Lawrence, on the fouth; and the Atlantic ocean
on the eaft.
It is fubjedt to Great-Britain, but yields only Ikins
and furs.
BRITAN NIC A, in botany, the trivial name of a fpe-
cies of Rumex. SccRumex.
BRIT ANY, a province of France, furrounded by the
Englilh channel and the bay of Bifcay, on the north,
weft, and fouth ; and bounded on the eaft by the pro¬
vince of Orleanois.
BRITE, or Bright, in hufbandry. Wheat, barley,
or any other grain, is faid to bnte, when it grows o-
ver ripe, and fhatters.
BRITTLENESS, that quality of bodies, on account
of which they are denominated brittle, or which fub-
jedts them to be eafdy broken.
Brittle bodies are likewife very hard and durable,
barring accidents ; and it is remarkable, that tin,
though tough in itfelf, makes all other metals brittle,
when mixed with them.
BRIVE la Gaillarqe, a town'of France in the Li-
moufin, upon the Coureze.
BRIXEN, a city of Tyrol in Germany, about fifty
miles north-eaft of Trent: E. long. n° 45', N. lat.
46° 45'.
BRIZA, a genus of the triandria digynia clafs. There
are five fpecies of Briza, two of which are natives of
Britain, viz. the media or middle quaking grafs, and
the minor or fmall quaking-grafs. They grow in pa-
fture-grounds.
BRIZE, in hulbandry, denotes ground that has lain long
untilled.
Bs-iZE-vents, (belters ufed by gardeners who have not
walls on the north-fide, to keep cold winds from da¬
maging their beds of melons. They are inclofures a-
bout fix or feven feet high, and an inch or more thick;
made of ftraw, fupported by ftakes fixed into the
ground, and props acrofs on both infide and outfide ;
and faftened together with willow twigs, or iron-wire.
BROADALBIN, a diftridl or county of Perthftiire, in
Scotland, bordering upon Argylelhire: It gives the
title of earl to a branch of the noble family of
Campbell.
BROAD-Jide, in the fea-language, denotes a volley of
cannon, or a general difcharge of all the guns on one
fide of a ftiip at once.
BROCADE, or Brocado, a fluff of gold, filver, or
filk, railed and enriched with flowers, foliages, and
■ other ornaments, according to the fancy of the mer¬
chants or manufacturers.
Formerly the word fignified only a fluff, wove all
of gold, both in the warp and in the woof, or all of
filver, or of both mixed together; thence it palled to
thofe of fluffs in which their was filk mixed, to raife
and terminate the gold or filver flowers : But at pre-
fent all fluffs, even thofe of filk alone, whether they
be grograms of Tours or of Naples, fattins, and even
taffeties or luftrings, if they be but adorned and work¬
ed with fome flowers, or other figures, are called bro¬
cades.
BaocADE-y^f//, the Englifh name of a fpecies of limax.
See Limax.
BROCATEL, or Brocadel, a kind of coarfe bro¬
cade; chiefly ufed for tapeftry.
BROCCOLI, a kind of cabbage cultivated for the ufe
of the- table; the manner of dreiling which is this:
When their heads are grown to their full bignefs,
they are to be cut off, with about four inches of the
tender Item ; the outer fkin is then to be ftripped off
the flem, after which they are to be wafhed, and
boiled in a clean linnen cloth, as is praftifed for cauli¬
flowers.
They are tenderer than any cauliflower, though ve¬
ry like them in tafte.
BROCK, among fportfmen, a term ufed to denote a
badger.
A hart too of the third year is called a brock, or
brocket; and a hind of the fame year, a brocket’s
fifter.
BROD, a town of Sclavonia, fituated on the river Save,
about fixteen miles fouth of Pofega : E.long. 180 50',
N. lat. 450 20'.
BRODERA, or Brodra, a city of Afia, in the coun¬
try of the Mogul and kingdom of Guzurat, where
there is a great trade in cotton cloths : E. long. 730
go', N. lat. 220 2s'.
BRODIUM, a pharmaceutical term, fignifying the fame
as jufculum, or the liquor in which fome folid medi¬
cine is preferved, or with which fomething elfe is di¬
luted.
BROGLING far eels, the fame with fniggling. See
Sniggling.
BROGLIO, a town of Peidmont in Italy, fituated
near the frontiers of Provence, about twenty five miles
north-weft of Nice: E. long. 6° 42', N. lat. 440 i2/.
It is the capital of a county of the fame name.
BROITSCHI A, a city of Afia in Indoftan, about twelve
leagues from Surat.
BROKEN wind, among farriers, is a malady that hap¬
pens to a horfe when he is fuffered to Hand too long
in the liable, without exercife : By this means he cbn-
tradls grofs and thick humours in fuch abundance, that,
adhering to the hollow parts of his lungs, they flop
his wind-pipe.
This diftemper is known by the horfe’s heaving and
drawing up his flanks together, and blowing wide his
noftrils.
To cure this diforder, take the guts of a hedge-hog,
dry
B R O ( 62i ) B R O
dry them, and pound them to powder, and give the
horfe two or three fpoonMs of it in a pint of wine or
ftrong ale ; then mix the reft with anife-feed, liquo¬
rice, and fweet butter, of which make round balls,
or pills, and give him two or there of them after
drink, and let him faft two or three hours.
BROKER, a name given to perfons of feveral and very
different profeflions, the chief of which are exchange-
brokers, ftock-brokers, pawn brokers, and brokers,
limply fo called, who fell houfehold-furniture, and fe-
cond-hand apparel.
Exc/'angtr-BRCKERS are a kind of agents, or negotiators,
who contrive, propofe, and conclude bargains between
merchants, and between merchants and tradefmen, in
matters of bills of exchange, or merchandife, for
which they have fo much commiflion. Thefe, by the
ftatute of 8 and 9 William III. are to be licenfed in
London by the Lord Mayor, who gives them an oath,
and takes bond for the faithful execution of their offi¬
ces. If any perfon fliall aft as broker, without being
thus licenfed and admitted, he {hall forfeit the fum of
5001. and perfons employing him 51. and brokers are
to regifter contrafts, under the like penalty: Al-
fo brokers fhall not deal for themfelves, on pain of for¬
feiting 200 1. They are to carry about with them a
, filver medal, having the king’s arms, and the arms of
the city, and pay 40s. a year to the chamber of the city.
The exchange brokers make it their bufinefs to
know the alteration of the courfe of exchange, to in¬
form merchants how it goes, and to give notice to
thofe who have money to receive or pay beyond fea ;
they are the proper perfons for negotiating the ex¬
change, and when the matter is accomplilhed, that is,
when the money for the bill is paid, and the bill de¬
livered, they have for brokerage 2 s. for 1001, fterling.
They reckon at Paris, among the city-officers, who
are employed under the jurifdiftion of the provoft of
the merchants, and echevins or aldermen, three forts
of brokers.
1. The brokers of horfes for the carriage of mer¬
chandife by water; they are eftablifhed for the navi¬
gation, and take care to examine the horfes ufed to
draw the boats up the river; to fet the horfes toge¬
ther, to oblige the carriers to repair their boats, or to
break fuch as are no longer fit to ferve.
2. Sworn wine-brokers on the keys, to examine
and tafte all the wine that arrives there.
3. Brokers of bacon and lard. Thefe are eftablifh-
ed to examine thofe forts of merchandifes, as they are
landed or unloaded, and to anfwer for their goodnefs
to the buyer, and to the feller, for the price of his
wares.
.SVocLBrokers, are thofe who are employed to buy
and fell (hares in the joint ftock of a company, or cor¬
poration.
As the praftice of flock-jobbing has been carried on
to fuch an excefs as became not only ruinous to a great
number of private families, but even affefted, or at
leaft might foon affie&; the public credit of the nation,,
the legiflature thought fit to put a flop to it, or at
Vol. I. Numb. 29. 3.,
leaft to bring it withing certain bounds, and under
fome regulation, by ftatute 7 GeorgeII. c. viii. feft. 1.
P^w«-Brokers. Perfons who keep (hops, and lend
money upon pledges to neceffitous perfons, and molt
commonly at an exorbitant intereft. They are more
properly ftyled pawn-takers, or tally men, fometimes
fripers, orfriperers. Thefe are meant in 1 Jac.I. cap.
xxi. feft. y. where it is declared, that the fale of
goods wrongfully taken to any broker, or pawn-bro¬
ker in London, Weftminfter, Southwark, or within
two miles of London, does not alter the property^.
And feft. 7. If a broker, having received fuch
goods, (hall not, upon requeft of the owner, difeover
them, how and when he came by them, and to whom
they are conveyed, he (hall forfeit the double value
thereof, to be recovered by aftion of debt, <bc.
In the cities of Italy, there are companies eftabliffi-
ed by authority for the lening out money on pawns,
called mounts of piety ; a title little becoming fuch in-
ftitutions, as the loan is not gratis. In fome parts of
Italy, they have al(o mounts of piety of another kind,
whprein they only receive ready money, and return it
again with intereft, at a certain fum per annum.
Ay Bologna, they have feveral fuch mounts, which,
are diftinguiflied into frank and perpetual; the intereft
of the former is only four per cent, that of the Lu
ter, feven.
Brokers are alfo thofe who fell old houfehold-furniture,
and wearing apparel, <bc.
BROMELIA, or pine apple, in botany, a genus of the
hexandria monogynia clafs. The calix is divided in¬
to three fegments; it has three petals, and there is a
fcaly neftarium at the bafe of each petal; the berry
has three cells. There are five fpecies of bromelia,
viz. the ananas or common pine-apple, which is ana
tive of Surinam and New Spain; the pinguin, a native
of Jamaica and Barbadoes ; the karatos, lingulata, and
nudicaulis, all natives of the fouthern parts of America.
BROMSGROVE, a market-town in Worcefterfliire, a-
bout ten miles north of Worcefter : W. long. 20 5’.
N. lat. 52° 26'.
BROMLEY, a market-town of Kent, ten miles fouth-'
eaft of London: E. long. 5', N. lat. 51° 25'.
Bromley is alfo the name of a market-town of Staf-
fordffiire, about ten miles eaft of Stafford : W. long.
i° 50', N. lat. 520 45'.
BROMOIDES, in botany. See Festuca.
BROMUS,,in botany, a genus of the triandria digynia
clafs. The calix is double-valved ; the fpica is ob¬
long and cylindrical; the awn is below the apex. There
are 17 fpecies, eight of which are natives of Britain,
viz. the (ecalinus or field brome-grafs, the arvenfis or
corn brome grafs, the ciliatus or wall brome graft,
the fterilis or barren brome-grafs, the giganteus or
tall brome-grafs, the ramofus or wood brome grafs,
and the pinnatus or fpiked brome-grafs.
BRONCHIA, in anatomy, the ramifications of the tra¬
chea. See p. 280. (col. 2.) & p. 281.
BRONCHOCELE, in furgery, a tumour arifing in the
anterior part of the neck. See Surgery,
f 8 K B5LON-
B R O ( 682
BRONCHOTOMY, in furgery, an incifion made in the
afpera arteria, or wind pipe, which is neceffary in ma¬
ny cafes, and efpecially in a violent quinfey, to pre¬
vent fuffbcation from the great inflammation or tumor
ef the parts. It is alfo called laryngotomy and tra¬
cheotomy. See Surgery.
BRONCHUS, according to Galen, is the afpera arte¬
ria which readies from the larynx to the lungs, con-
lifting of the bronchia.
Sometimes it is put for the whole afpera arteria ;
and Hippocrates ufes it to fignify the throat.
BRONTLR, or Thunder stones, in natural hifto-
ry. See Belemnites.
BRONTIUM, in Grecian antiquity, a place under¬
neath the floor of the theatres, in which were kept
brazen veflels full of ftones and other materials, with
which they imitated the noife of thunder.
BRONTOLOGY denotes the do&rine of thunder, or an
explanation of its caufes, phenomena, <bc. together
with the prefages drawn from it. See Thunder, and
Electricity.
BRONZE, a compound metal, confifting of one part of
tin, ten of copper, and a little zinc. See Chemi stry.
BRONZES, a name given by antiquarians, to figures ei¬
ther of men or beafts, to urns, and, in general, to e-
very piece of fculpture which the ancients made of that
metal. We likewife give the name of bronzes to fta-
tues or bufts call of bronze, whether thefe pieces be
copies of antiques, or original fubjeds.
Among medallifts, all copper medals bear the name
of bronze.
BRONZING, the art of varniftiing wood, plafter, ivo¬
ry, <bc. fo as to give them the colour of bronze. See
Varnishing.
BROOD, the young of filh, fowls, <bc.
BROODING, the ad of a hen in hatching her eggs.
See Hatching.
BROOK, a little river or fmall current of water.
A brook is diftinguiftied from a river infomuch as
a river flows at all times, whereas a brook flows at
fome particular feafons only.
Brook-/me. See Anagallis.
BROOM, in botany. See Genista.
Ra/c/err-BROOM, the Englifla name of the rufcus. See
Spartium.
SpaniJh-'&iiOOMi in botany. See Spartium.
Broom-flower, ordrr de la genijie, an order infti-
tuted by St Louis, king of France, to Ihew the efteem
which he had for the queen his wife, who, the even¬
ing before his queen’s coronation, received this order
himfelf.
Broom-rape, in botany. See Orobanche.
BROOMING, or Breaming, of a fbip, the wafliing
and burning off all the filth that ftie has contraded on
her fides with weeds, ftraw, broom, or the like, when
Ihe is on the careen, or on the ground. See Ca¬
reening.
BROTHEL. See Stews.
BROTHER, a term of relation between male children,
fprung from the fame parents, or from the fame fa¬
ther, or the fame mother.
) B R O
The ancients ufed the term brother, indifferently,
to almoft all who flood related in the collateral line,
as uncles and nephews, coufins-german, foe.
According to the laws of Mofes, the brother of a
man, who died witliout children, was obliged to mar¬
ry the widow of the deceafed, in order to raife up
children to him, that his name and memory might
not be extind. See the article Widow.
Among us, it is cuftomary for kings to give the ti¬
tle brother to each other.
In the civil law, brothers, fratres, in the phtral
number, fometimes comprehends lifters..
Brother is alfo a cuftomary term for priefts of the
fame perfuafion to addrefs one another by; but it is
more particularly ufed to denote the relation between
monks of the fame convent, as father Zachary: In
Englilh, we more ufually fay, Friar Zachary, from
the French word frere, brother. Preachers alfo call
their hearers, my brethren, or my dear brethren ; and
fometimes they ufe the lingular number, and fay, my
brother.
This appellation is borrowed from the primitive
Chriftians, who all called each other brothers : but it
is now principally ufed for fuch of the religious as are
not priefts; thofe in orders are generally honoured with
the title of father, whereas the reft are only limply
brothers.
Brothers-german. See German.
Brothers 0/' the rojy-crofs. See Rosicrucian.
BROUCK, the name of a town of Germany, in the
circle of Weftphalia, upon the river Roer; and like¬
wife of a town of Switzerland, upon the banks of the
Aar.
BROUERSHAVEN, a port-town of Zeland, in the
united Netherlands, fituated -on the north fide of the
illand of Schonen, about nine miles fouth-weft of
Helvoetlluys: E. Ion. 30 55', and N. lat. 5ip 50'.
BROW, or Eye-brow, an hairy arch extended over
the.orbit of each eye. See p. 291. col. 1.
BROW-post, among builders, denotes a beam which
goes acrofs a building.
Brow-antler, among fportfmen, that branch of a
deer’s horn next the tail.
BROWALLIA, in botany, a genus of the didynamia
angiofpermia clafs. The calix has five teeth ; the lim¬
bus of the corolla is divided into five equal and open
fegments ; and the capfule is unilocular.
BROWN, among dyers, painters, <bc. a du/ky colour,,
inclining towards rednefs. Of this colour there are
various lhades or degrees, diftinguifhed by different
appellations; for inftance, Spanifh-brown, a fad-
brown, a tawney-brown, the London-brown, a clove-
brown, <bc.
Spanilh-brown is a dark dull red, of a horfe-flelh
colour. It is an earth, and is of great ufe among
painters, being generally ufed as the firft and priming
colour that they lay upon any kind of timber-work
in houfe-painting. That which iS of the deepeft co¬
lour, and freeft from ftones, is the heft. Though
this is of a dirty brown colour, yet it is much ufed,
not to colour any garment, unlefs it be an old man’s
gown.;
B R U ( 683 ) B II U
gown ; but to fliadow Vermillion, or to lay upon any
dark ground behind a pidure, or to fhadow yellow-
berries in the darkeft places, when you want lake,
&c. It is beft and blighted when burnt in the fire,
till it be red hot, although, if you would colour any
hare, horfe, dog, or the like, it fliould not be burnt;
but, for other ufes, it is belt when it is burnt ; as for
inftance, for colouring wood, pods, bodies of trees,
or any thing elfe of wood, or any dark ground of a
picture. See Dying.
BROWNISTS, in church-hi(lory, a religious fedl,
which fprung up in England towards the end of the
XVIth century. Their leader was one Robert Brown,
born at Northampton. They feparated from the eila-
blifned church, on account of its difcipline and form
of government. They equally difliked epifcopacy and
prefbyterianifm. They condemned the folemn cele¬
bration of marriages in churches, maintaining, that
matrimony being a political contract, the confirmation
of it ought to proceed from the civil magiftrate. They
rejected all forms of prayer, and held, that the Lord’s
prayer was not to be recited as a prayer; being given
only as a model, upon which to form our prayers.
BRUCA, the name of a river and fea-port town of Si¬
cily, in the valley of Noto.
BRUCHS AL, a town of the bifhopric of Spires, in the
palatinate of the Rhine, in Germany : E. Ion. 8° 30',
and N. lat. 490 15 .
BRUCHUS, in zoology, a genus of infers belonging
to the order of caleoptera. The feelers are filiform,
and gradually increafe in thicknefs. There are feven;
fpecies, viz, the pifi, has grey elytra interfperfed
with white fpots, and a white fundament with twoc
black fpots. It is a native of North America, and
deftroys whole fields of peafe : It is now found in fe-
veral of the fouthern parts of Europe; where it does-
great injury to the corn. 2. The theolromae with,
whitifh elytra interfperfed with black points. It fre¬
quents the theolroma or chocolate, trees in the Eaft
Indies. 3. The gleditfise, with ftriated elytra of
the fame length with the belly, a pitch-coloured body,
and green feelers. It is a native of America. 4.
The badtris, with fmooth elytra, a hoary body, and
the hind part of the thighs oval. It frequents the
palm-trees of Jamaica. 5. The granarius, has black
elytra; the fore-feet are red, and the hind-feet are
dentated. It frequents the feeds of plants in differ¬
ent parts of Europe. 6. The femiparius is black,
with the bafe of the feelers and fore-feet teftaceous.
It is about the fize of a loufe, and a native of Eu¬
rope. 7. The pedticornis, with comb-ihaped feelers-
longer than the body. It is a native of Barbary and
China.
BRUGES, a city and port-town of Flanders, eleven
miles eafi: of Oftend, and twenty-four north-weft of
Ghent: E. Ion. 30 5', and N. lat. 510 \6'.
There is a navigable canal from Oftend to Bruges,-
which has ftill the belt foreign trade of any town in
Flanders.
BRUISE, in furgery, the fame with contufion. See
Contu.sio.n, and Surgejiy.
BRUMALIA, in Roman antiquity, feftivals of Bacchus -
celebrated twice a-year; the firft on the twelfth of
the calends of March, and the other on the eigh¬
teenth of the calends of November. They were in-
ftituted by Romulus, who, during thefe feafts, ufed
to entertain the fenate. Among other heathen fefti¬
vals which the primitive Chriftians were much incli¬
ned to obferve, Tertullian mentions the brums or bru-
malia.
BRUNELLA, in botany. See Prunella.
BRUNIA, in botany, a genus of the pentandria mono-
gynia clafs. The flowers are aggregated; the fila¬
ments of the ftamina are inferted into the ungues of
the petals ; the ftigma is bifid, and the feeds are
Angle.' There are fix fpecies, all natives of /Ethi¬
opia.
BRUNSBUTTEL, a port-town of Holftein, in the.
circle of Lower Saxony, in Germany, fituated at the
mouth of the river Elbe : E. Ion. 8° 42/, and N. lat.
540 ic/. It is fubjedt to Denmark.
BRUNSFELSIA, in botany, a genus of the pentan-
dria monogynia clafs. The corolla is long and (haped
like a tunnel; the berry is unilocular, and contains
many feeds.
BRUNSWICK, the capital of the duchy of Brunfvvick,
in the circle of Lower Saxony, in Germany, fituated
on the river Ocker, about 35 miles eaft of Hanover
E. Ion. io° 30V and N. lat. 520 3c/.
The ele&or of Hanover is ftyled duke of Brunfwick, .
though he has no property in, or dominion over, the
city of that name, which belongs to the duke of Brunf¬
wick Wolfembuttle.
BURNTISLAND, a parliament-town on the coaft of.
Fife,, in. Scotland,. about ten miles north-weft of E-
dinburgh; W. long. 30, and N. lat. 5b0 laA
BRUSH, an inftrument made of briftles-, hair, wire, oc
fmall twigs, to clean- cloaths, rooms, ire. and alfo to
paint with.. There are various forts of them, diftin-,
guiflied by their drape or ufe. In the choice of paint¬
ers bruflres, obferve whether the briftles are faft bound
in the (locks, and if the hair be ftrong.and lie clofe
together; for if they fprawl abroad,.fuch will never
work well ; and if they are not faft boimd in the (lock,
the briftles will come out when you are ufing them,
and fpoil your work, as- may be feen where the loofe .
hairs of the. bruflr have lain up and down in the colours .
laid on, to the great detriment of the work.
Wine-rbruflics are of ufe for ferubbing thofe filver,
copper, and brafs pieces, which.are .to be gilded over,
in order to clear them perfeftly from any dirt, ,ruft,. or
filth, which may adhere to them, and, if not bruflied
off, would hinder the.doling, of the gold with them.
They are therefore ufed by gilders, filverfmiths, <&c.
and are ufually fold by ironmongers-. Beard-bru(hcs
pay a duty, on importation, of is. 3r^d. the grofs
or twelve dozen; whereof is. i~ is drawn back on
exporting, them. Gomb-bru(hes pay 2S. 6T®6%d. for
the fame number; and of this 2s. 3d. is repaid.
Hsad-brufties pay 1 s. S-j^d. the dozen; rubbing-
bruflies 3ruu^> ^ dozen; weaversTbrufties 1 i-A/gd.
for the. fame, number; in all which a proportional
drawbacks
BUB ( ) BUB
drawback is allowed. However, it is to be obferved,
that brufhes are among the number of goods prohibited
to be imported.
BRUSSELS, the capital of the province of Brabant,
and of all the Auftrian Netherlands. It is fituated on
the river Senne, and is the fee of a bifliop; W. long.
40 6', and N. lat. 50° 50k
It is a (irong fortified tojvn, and agreeably fituated,
•which, together with the viceroy’s refidence, occafions
a great reiort of nobility and gentry.
BRUTE, an animal ghided moftly by mere inftindt, and
comprehends all animals, excepting mankind.
BRUTON, a market-town in Somerfetfhire, about ten
miles fouth-eaft of Wells; W. long. 20 35', and N.
lat. 51° 15/.
BRYANSBRIDGE, a town of Ireland, in the county
of Clare, and province of Connaught, fituated on the
river Shannon, about eight miles north of Limerick.
BRYGMUS, among phylicians, a grating noife made by
the gnafhing of teeth.
BRYONIA, in botany, a genus of the monoecia fynge-
nefia clafs. The calix of the male has five teeth ; the
corolla is divided into five fegments; and there are
three filaments. The calix of the female is likewife
teethed; the corolla has five divifions; the flylus is
trifid; and the berry is roundilh, and contains many
feeds. There are fix fpecies of bryony, only one of
which, viz. the alba, or white bryony, is a native of
Britain. The root is a ftrong cathartic, and, applied
externallj, is faid to be a powerful difcutient.
$Ici-ck.’Bryony. See Tamus.
BRYUM, in botany, a genus of the cryptogamia mufci
clafs. The anthera is covered with an operculum;
the calyptra is fmooth. There are 41 fpecies, moft of
them natives of Britain.
BUBALIS, in zoology, the trivial name of the buffalo,
a fpecies of the bos. See Bos.
BUBBLE, in philofophy, fmall drops or veficles of any
fluid filled with air, and either formed on its furface,
by an addition of more of the fluid, as in raining,
eirc.; or in its fubftance, by an intefline motion of its
component particles. Bubbles are dilatable or com-
preflable, /. <?. they take up more or lefs room, as the
included air is more or lefs heated, or more or lefs
preffed from without, and are round, becaufe the in¬
cluded air adfs equally from within, all around.
Bubble, in commerce, a cant term given to a kind of
projedt for raifing of money on imaginary grounds,
much pradlifed in France and England in the years
1719, 1720, and 1721.
The pretence of thofe fchemes was the raifing a ca¬
pital for retrieving, fetting on foot, or carrying on
fome promifing and ufeful branch of trade, manufac¬
ture, machinery, or the like : To this end propolals
were made out, fhewing the advantages to be derived
from the undertaking, and inviting perfons to be en¬
gaged in it. The fum neceflary to manage the affair,
together with the profits expedted from it, were divi¬
ded into (hares or fubfcriptions, to be purchafed by a-
ny difpofed to adventure therein.
Bubbles, by which the public have been tricked.
are of two kinds, viz. 1. Thofe which vye may pro¬
perly enough term trading-bubbles ; and, 2. Stock or
fund-bubbles. The former have been of various kinds ;
and the latter at different times, as in 1719 and 1720.
BUBO, in ornithology, the trivial nanle of a fpecies of
ftrix. See Strjx.
Bubo, or Bubo’e, in furgery, a tumour which arifes,
with inflammation, only in certain or particular parts
to which they are proper, as in the arm-pits and in the
groins. See Medicine, and Surgery.
BUBON, in botany, a genus of the pentandria digynia
clafs. The fruit is oval, firiated, and hairy. There
are four fpecies, and none of them natives of Bri¬
tain.
BUBONOCELE, or Hernia inguinalis, in fur¬
gery, a tumour in the inguen, formed by a prolapfus
of the inteftines, omentum, or both, through the pro-
cefles of the peritonseum, and rings of the abdominal
mufcles. See Surgery.
BUBONIUM, in botany, a fynonime of the inula. See
Inula.
BUCANEPHYLLON, in botany, the name by which
Plukenet calls the farracena. See Sarracena,
BUCARDIA, or Bucardit2e, in natural hiftory, a
kind of figured (tones, formed in the cavities of the
larger cockles, and refembling, in fome meafure, a
heart at cards.
BUCARIZA, a town of the kingdom of Hungary, in
Croatia, upon the Adriatic fea, in a gulf that takes
the fame name.
BUCCA ferrea, in botany, a name given by Micheli to
the ruppia of Linnaeus. See Ruppia,
BUCCAL, fomething belonging to the cheeks: Thus,
the buccal glands, are thofe difperfed over the inner
fide of the cheeks.
BUCCANEERS, thofe who dry and fmoke flefh or
fifh, after the manner of the Americans.
This name is particularly given to the French inha¬
bitants of the ifland of St Domingo, whofe whole em¬
ployment is to hunt bulls, or wild boars, in order to
fell the hides of the former, and the flefh of the latter.
The buccaneers are of two forts : The buccaneers
ox-hunters, or rather hunters of bulls and cows ; and
the buccaneers boar-hunters, who are Amply called
hunters; though it feems, that fuch a name be lefs
proper to them than the former; fince the latter fmoke
and dry the flefh of wild boars, which is properly cal¬
led buccaneering, whereas the former prepare only the
hides, which is done without buccaneering.
Buccaneering is a term taken from Buccan, the
place where they fmoke their flefh or fifh, after the
manner of the favages, on a grate or hurdle, made of
Brafil wood, placed in the fmoke, a confiderable di-
ftance from the fire: This place is a hut, of about
twenty five or thirty feet in circumference, all fur-
rounded and covered with palmetto leaves.
Buccaneers alfo fignify thofe famous adventurers of
all the nations in Europe, who join together to make
war againfl the Spaniards of America, cruifing about
in privateers, to take all the vtflels and fmall craft
they can meet with.
BUCCARI,
BUG ( 685 ) BUG
BUCCARI, a town of IftrLa upon the Adriatic fea, be¬
longing to the houfe of Auftria.
Buccari, or Bouchari, is alfo the name of a large
province of Afiatic Tartary, ikuated between 78° and
i)0° E. Ion. and 340 and 440 N. lat.
BUCCELLAR.il, an order of foldicry under the Greek
emperors, appointed to guard and diftribute the am¬
munition-bread ; though authors are lomewhat divi¬
ded as to their office and quality. Among the Vifi-
goths, buccellarius was a general name for a client or
vaffal who lived at the expence of his lord. Some
give the denomination to parafites in the courts of
princes, fome make them the body-guards of empe¬
rors, and fome fancy they were only fuch as empe¬
rors employed in putting perfons to death privately.
BUCCINA, an ancient mulical and military inftrument.
It is ufually taken for a kind of trumpet; which opini¬
on is confirmed by Feftus, by bis defining it a crook¬
ed horn, played on like a trumpet. Vegetius obferves,
that the buccina bent in a femicircle, in which refpeft
it differed from the tuba or trumpet. It is very hard
to diftinguiffi it from the cornu or horn, unlefs it was
fomething lefs, and not quite fo crooked; yet it cer¬
tainly was of a different fpecies, becaufe we never read
of the cornu in ufe with the watch, but only the buc¬
cina. Befides, the found of the buccina was (harper,
and to be heard much farther, than either the cornu
or the tuba. In fcripture, the like inftrument, ufed
both in war and in the temple, was called rams-
horns, kiren-jobel, and fopheroth hagijobelim.
BUCCINUM or Trumpet-shell, a genus of (hell-
fifh belonging to the order of vermes teltacex. This
animal is one of the fnail kind. The (hell is univalve,
fpiral, and gibbous. The aperture is oval, ending in
a fmall ftrait canal. Linnseus enumerates about fixty
fpecies, moft of which are found in the fouthern feas.
BUCCO, in ornithology, a genus belonging to the or¬
der of picas. The beak is cultrated, turned inwards,
compreffed on the fides, and emarginated on each fide
at the apex; and there is a long flit below the eyes.
The noftrils are covered with feathers. 1 he feet have
four toes, two before and two behind. There is but
one fpecies, viz. the capenfis, which is of a reddiffi
colour, with a yellow belt round the fhoulders, and a
black one round the bread. It is found at the Cape
of Good-Hope.
BUCCULA, in antiquity, denotes the umbo, or mod:
prominent part in the middle of a ftneld; fo called,
becaufe ufually fafhioned like the mouth or face of a
man or other animal.
BUCENTAUR, a galeas, or large galley of the doge
of Venice, adorned with fine pillars on both fides, and
gilt over from the prow to the ftern. This veffel is
covered over head with a kind of tent, made of pur¬
ple filk. In it the doge receives the great lords and
perfons of quality that go to Venice, accompanied with
the ambaffadors and counfellors of ftate, and all the
fenators feated on benches by him. The fame veffel
ierves alfo in the magnificent ceremony of afcenfion-
Vol. I. No. 29. 3
day, on which the Duke of Venice throws a ring into
the fea to efpoufe it, and to denote his dominion over
the gulph of Venice.
Bucentaur is alfo the name of a (hip, as great and
as magnificent as that of the Venetians, built by or¬
der of the eledlor of Bavaria, and launched on a lake,
which is fix leagues in length.
BUCEROS, in ornithology, a genus belonging to the
order of picse. The beak is convex, cultrated, very
large, and ferrated outwards : The fore-head is naked,
with a bony gibbofity. The noftrils are behind the
bafe of the beak. The tongue is (harp and fliort.
The feet are of the greffarii kind, i. e. the toes are
diftindt from each other. There are four fpecies
of the buceros, viz. t. The bicornis, with a flat
bony fore-head, and two horns before. The body is
black, and about the fize of a hen; but the breaft,
belly and thighs are white. There is a white fpot on
the wing; the tail is long, with ten black prime fea¬
thers, and the four outermoft on each are white. The
feet are greenilh, with three toes before and one be¬
hind. It is a native of China, and called Calao by
Willoughby and other authors. 2. The hydrocorax,
or Indian crow of Ray, has a plain bony fore-head
without any horns. The body is yellowifli, and black-
ifh below. It inhabits the Molucca illes. 3. The
rhinoceros, has a crooked horn in the fore-head join¬
ed to the upper mandible. It is a native of India,
and feeds upon carion. 4. The nafutus, has a fmooth
fore-head. It is about the fize of a magpye, and is
a native of Senegal.
BUCH, a town of Guienne, in France, which gives its
name to a territory called le Capitu/at de Buch.
BUCHAN, a country or diftriift of Aberdeenftiire, in
Scotland: It gives the title of Earl to the noble and
ancient family of Erfltine.
BUCHNER A, in botany, a genus of the didynamia an-
giofpermia clafs. The calix has five teeth; the co¬
rolla is divided into five equal heart-flraped fegments;
and the capfule is bilocular. There are three fpecies,
viz. The americana, a native of Canada and Virginia;
the afiatica, a native of Ceylon and China; and the
Africana, a native of ^Ethiopia.
BUCHAW, an imperial city of Swabia, in Germany,
about twenty-five miles fouth-weft of Ulm : E. lon«„
90 40/, and N. lat. 48°, 5'.
BUCHAREST, a town of Wallachia, fubjeff to the
Turks: E. Ion. 26° 3c/, and N. iat. 440 20/.
BUCHORN, a city of Swabia, in Germany, fituated
on the eaft fide of the lake of Conftance, and about
twelve miles eaft of the city of Conftance: E. long.
90 2c/, and N. iat. 470 40'.
BUCIOCHE, in commerce, a fort of woolen cloth ma-
nufadtured in Provence, which the fiench (hips carry
to Alexandria and Cairo.
BUCK, in zoology. See Cervus.
Buck-bean, in botany. See Menyanthes.
Buck-thorn, the Englifh name of the rhamnus.
Buck-wheat. See Polygonum.
t 8 L
BUCKET,
BUG (686
BUCKET, a fmall portable veffel, to hold water, of¬
ten made of leather for its lightnefs and eafy ufe in
cafes of fire.
It is alfo the veflel let down into a well, or the
Tides of fhips, to fetch up water.
BUCKING, the firil operation in the whitening of lia-
nen yarn or cloth. See p. 564.
BUCKINGHAM, a borough-town of Buckinghamfhire,
about forty-fix miles north-weft of London: W. Ion.
1°, and N. lat. 5 i° yo'.
It fends two members to parliament.
Buckinghamfturehas Northamptonfhire on the north;
Bedford, Hertford, and Middlefex, on the eaft ; Berk-
fhire, from which it is divided by the river Thames,
on the fouth; and Oxfordlhire, on the weft.
BUCKLE, a well known utenfil, made of divers forts
of metals, as gold, filver, fteel, brafs, eirc.
The faftuon or form of buckles is various ; but their
ufe, in general, is to make faft certain parts of drefs,
as the fiiots, garters, &c.
Buckles for girdles pay a duty of 3 s. io^%d. the
grofs, or twelve dozen; whereof is. 4ld. is drawn
back on exportation. Buckles for girts pay likewife
a duty of is. 5-rV^d. the grofs ; and both thefe pay
fomewhat more, if of brafs. But it is be pbferved, that
all buckles are prohibited to be imported.
BUCKLER, a piece of defenfive armour ufed by the
ancients. It was worn on the left arm, and compofed
of wickers woven together, or wood of the lighted
fort, but moft commonly of hides, fortified with plates
of brafs or metal. The figure was fometimes round,
fometimes oval, and fometimes almoft fquare. Moft
of the bucklers were curioufly adorned with all forts
of figures of birds and beafts, as eagles, lions ; nor of
thefe only, but of the gods, of the celeftial bodies,
and all the works of nature; which cuftom was deri¬
ved from the heroic times, and from them communi¬
cated to the Grecians, Romans, and Barbarians.
Votive Bucklers. Thofe confecrated to the gods, and
hung up in their temples, either in commemoration of
1'ome hero, or as a thankfgiving for a vidory obtained
over an enemy; whofe bucklers, taken in war, were
ciTered as a trophy.
BUCKNHAM, or Buckenham, a market-town of
Norfolk,, about nine miles eaft of Thetford: E. long.
i° 10', N. lat. 520 30'.
BUCKOR, a province of the E. Indies, fituated on the
river Indus, having, the province of Multan on the
north, and Tatta on the fouth.
BUCKRAM, in commerce, a fort of coarfe cloth
made of hemp, gummed, calendered, and dyed feve-
ral colours. It is put into thofe. places of the lining,
of a garment, which one would have ftiff, and to keep
their0forms. It is alfo ufed in the bodies of womens
gowns ; and it often ferves to make, wrappers to cover
cloths, ferges, and fuch other merchandifes, in order
to preferve them and keep them from the duft, and
their colours from, fading. Buckrams are fold whole-
fale by the dozen of fmall pieces or remnants, each
about four dls long, and broad according to the pieces
'max which they are cut. Sometimes they ufe new-
) BUD
pieces of linen cloth to make buckrams, but moft
commonly old Iheets and old pieces of fails.
Garrick buckrams pays a duty, of 5 —3%- d. the fivort
piece; whereof 5-rV^ d. is repaid on exporting it,
Eaft-country buckram pays 1 s. z-i^-d. the roll or
half-piece ; whereof is. TVb-d* is drawn’ back. French
buckram pays 11. 13 s. ioT:ffVd. the dozen pieces;
whereof 11, 00 s. ix^VcL is repaid. Fine German
buckrams pays 2 s. 4-^jd. the piece; whereof 2 s,
is drawn back on exportation.
BUCKSTALL, a toil to take deer, which muft not be
kept by any body that has not a park of his own, un¬
der penalties.
BUCOLICi in ancient poetry, a kind of poem relating
to ftiepherds and country affairs, which, according to
the moft generally received opinion, took its rife in
Sicily-. Bucolics, fays Voffius, have fome conformity
with comedy. Like it, they are piftures and imita¬
tions of ordinary life; with this difference, however,
that comedy reprefents the manners of. the inhabitants
of cities, and bucolics the occupations of country peo¬
ple. Sometimes, continues he, this laft poem is in
form of a monologue, and fometimes of a dialogue.
Sometimes there is aftion in it, and fometimes only
narration ; and fometimes it is compofed both of ac¬
tion and narration. The hexameter verfe is the moft
proper for bucolics in the Greek and Latin tongues.
Mofchus, Bion, Theocritus, and Virgil, are the moft
renowned of the ancient bucolic poets.
BUD, among gardeners, that part of a feed which firft
begins to fprout, or rather the ler«’es firft put forth :
Thefe in fome plants are two; in others, four; and
in others again, fix, or even more.
Bud is alfo ufed for the fprout from whence a branch a-
rifes.
Bud, in country-affairs, likewife denotes a weaned calf
of the firft year; fo called, becaufe the horns are theu
in the bud,
BUDA, the capital of lower Hungary, about 130 miles
fouth-eaft of Vienna: It ftands on the fide of a hill,, on
the fouth-weft fide of the Danube, and is well fortified
and defended by a caftle, efteemed one of the Ifrong-
eft fortrefles in Hungary : E. long. 190 20 , N. lat.
520 25'.
BUDDESDALE, a market town of Suffolk, about
thirteen miles north-eaft of Bury : E. long. i° ic/,
and N. lat. 520 2$ <
BUDDLE, in mineralogy, a large fquare frame of
boards, ufed in waftiing the tin ore. See Washing.
BUDDLEIA, in botany, a genus of the tetrandria
monogynia dais. The calix and corolla are each di¬
vided into four parts ; the ftamina are infened into the
receptacle; the capfule has four cells, and contains,
many feeds. The fpecies are two, viz. the oecidcn-
talis, and americana, both, natives of America.
BUDDLING, the a<S of cleanfing, or waftiing any ore.
See Washing.
B.UDGE-^trffA, . among engineers, fmall barrels well
hooped, with only one head; on the other end is nail¬
ed a piece of leather, to draw together upon firings
Eke a purfe,. Their ufe is for carrying powder along,
wkht
B U F ( 687
a gun or mortar, being lefs dangerous, and eaner
carried, than whole barrels. They are likewife tiled
upon a battery of mortars, for holding meal-powder.
BUDINGEN, the capital of a county of the fame name
in Germany, lituated in the circle of the upper Rhine,
about twenty miles north-eaft of Frankfort.
BUDOA, a city of Dalmatia, fituated on the gulf of
Venice, in 190 20' E. long, and 42° ^ N. lat.
It is a bilhop’s fee.
BUDWEIS, a town of Bohemia, fituated on the river
Muldaw, about fixty-five miles fouth of Prague: E.
long. 140 20', N. lat. 490.
BUDZIAC Tartary, a country fubjedt to the Turks,
fituated on the rivers Neiller, Bog. and Nieper ; ha¬
ving Poland and Ruffia, on the north; Little Tarta¬
ry, on the ealt; the Black-fea, on the fouthand
BefTarabia, on the weft.
BUEN-AYRE. See Bonaire.
BUENOS-AYRES, one of the moft conffderable Spa-
nilh ports on the eaft coaft of South America, fituated
on the fouthern IhOre of the river Plata, and about
fifty leagues from its mouth ; and yet here the river
is full feven leagues broad: W. long. 6o°, S.lat 36°.
It is a ftrong fortified town
BUEN-RETIRO, a palace near Madrid, belonging to
the king of Spain.
BUFF, in commerce, a fort of leather' prepared from
the fkin of the buffalo, which, dreffed with oil, after
the manner of lhammy, makes what we call buff-lkin.
This makes a very confiderable article in the French,
Englifli, and Dutch commerce at Conftantinople,
Smyrna, and all along, the coaft of Africa. The
ikins of elks, oxen, and other-like animals, when
prepared after the- fame manner as that of the buffalo,
are likewife called buffss
OfbufF-fkin, or buff-leather, are made a fort of
coats for the horfe or gens d’arms of Francs, banda-
liers, belts, pouches and gloves.-
In France, there arefeveral manufadtories defigned
for the drelling of thofe fort of hides, particularly at
Corbeil, near Paris ; at Niort, at Lyons, at Rone, at
Etanepus, at Cone.
BUFFALO, in zoology. Sfee Bos.
B.UFFET was anciently a little apartment, feparaited
from the reft of the room by flender wooden columns,
for the difpofing of china, glafs-ware, <bc. .
It is now properly a large table in a dinning-room,
called alfo a fide-board, for the plate, glaffes, bottles,
bafons, ei'c. .to be placed on, as well for the fervice
ef the table, as for magnificence. In houfes-of per-
fons of diftindlion in France, the buffet is a detached
room, decorated with pidtures relative to the fubjedt,
with fountains, cifterns and vafes. . It is- commonly
faced with marble or bronze.
BUFFOON, a droll or mimic who diverts the public by
his pleafantries and follies,.
BUFO, in zoology, the trivial name-of a fpecies of rana.
See Rana.
BUFONIA, in botany, a genus of the diandria mono-
gypia clafs. The. calix is fourrleaved j the petals are .
) BUI
four; and the capfule is unilocular, and contains tro
feeds. There is but one fpecies, viz. the tenuifolia
or baftard chick-weed, a native of Britain.
BUG, a river, which, taking its rife in red Rufiia in
Poland* runs norhward to Brefte ; and then, turning
V'eftward, falls into the Weifel, or Viftula, below
Warfaw.
Bug, or Bugg, in zoology, the Englilh name of a
fpecies of ciniex. See Cimex.
BUGEN, a town of Japan, the capital of the kingdom
of that name, in the ifle of Ximo.
BUGEY, a territory in France,, being the fouth divifion
of Brefie, in Burgundy, on the frontiers of Savoy.
BUGGASINS, in commerce, a name given to buckrams
made of callico: thefe pay a duty, on importation,
of is. 2T3cnyd. the half piece; whereof is. TViyd. is
drawn back on exportation-
BUGGERS, in churchdfiftory, the fame with bulga-
rians, a fed! of heretics which, amongft other errors,
held, that men ought to believe no fcripture but the
New Teftament; that baptifm was not necefiary t<j
infants ; that huibands who converfed with their wives
could not be faved; and that an oath was abfolutely
unlawful.
BUGGERER; a perfon who is guilty of the crime of
buggery. See the next article.
BUGGERY, is defined by Sir Edward Coke to be a
carnal copulation again ft nature, either by the confu-
fion of fpecies, that is to fay, a man or woman with
a brute beaft; or fexes, as a man with a man, or man
unnaturally with a woman. It is faid this fin againft
God and nature was firft brought into England by the
Lombards; and anciently, according to fome writers,
it was punifhable with burning; but others fay, with
burying alive. It is, by ftatute, felony without bene¬
fit, of clergy, and is .always excepted out of a general
pardon;
BUGIA, a port-town of the kingdom of Algiers, in A-
frica, fituated about fixty miles eaft of the city of Al¬
giers; E. long. 40, N. lat. 350 3c/.
RUGIE, a port-town of Egypt, fituated on the weftern >
ftiore of the Red-fea, almoit oppofite to Ziden, the .
port-town to Mecca, and about 100 miles weft of it; ,
E,. long. 36°, N. lat. 22°.
BUGLE,, in botany. See Adjuga.
BUGLOSS, in botany. SeeANcnusA.
Viper's Bugloss, in botany. See Ec.hium.-
BUGULA, Bugle, in botany.. See Adjuga,
BUHL, a little fortrefs in Swabia, about fix miles fouth- •
eaft of StclhoJFen; and nineteen north-eaft of Straf.
burg.
BUILDING, a fabric-ereAed by art, either for devo-
votion, for magnificence, or for conveniency.
ifrga/dr Buildi.ng, is that whofe plan is fquare, the
oppofite fides equal,: and the parts difpofed with fyni-
metry. .
Irregular -Buiddikg, that , whofe- plan is not contained
with equal Or parallel lines, either by the accident of
fituation, or the defign of the builder, and whofe parts,
are not relative to. one another in the elevation.
Infujaled -
B U L (6
Buildikg, that which is not contiguous to
any other, but is encompaffed with ftreets, open fquares,
or the like.
£»£«(/!?(/Building, one furrounded with other build¬
ings, having no front to any ftreet or public place, nor
any communication without, but by a common paf-
fage.
Interred or funk Building, one whofe area is below
the furface of the place on which it (lands, and of
which the lowed courfes of done are concealed.
Building is alfo ufed for the art of condrudting and
railing an edifice; in which fenfe it comprehends as
well the expences, as the invention and execution of
the defign.
As for the materials of buildings, they are either
done, as marble, free-done, brick for the walls, mor¬
tar, &c. or of wood, as fir, cyprefs, cedars for pil¬
lars of upright ufes, oak for dimmers, beams, and
crop-work, or for joining and connection. See Ar¬
chitecture.
BUL, in the ancient Hebrew chronology, the eighth
month of the ecclefiadical, and the fecond of the ci¬
vil year ; it has fince been called Marflievan, and an-
fwers to our October.
BULAC, a town of Egypt, fituatedon the eadern fliore
of the river Nile, about two miles wed of Grand
Cairo, of which it is the port-town, and contains a-
bout four thoufand families; E. long. 320, and N.
lat. 30°.
It is a place of great trade, as all the veflels going
up and down the Nile make fome day here: it is al-
fo in this place that they cut the banks of the Nile e-
very year, in order to fill their canals, and overflow the
neighbouring grounds, without which the foil would
produce neither grain nor herbage.
BULAFO, a mufical indrument confiding of feveral
pipes of wood, tied together with thongs of leather
fo as to form a fmall interdice between each pipe. It
is ufed by the negroes of Guinea.
BULB, or Bulbous root, in the anatomy of plants,
exprefles a root of a round or roundifli figure, and u-
fually furniflied with fibres at its bale.
Bulbous roots are faid to be foiid, when compofed
of one uniform lump of matter; tunicated, when
formed of multitudes of coats, furrounding one ano¬
ther; fquamofe, when compofed of, or covered with
lefler flakes; duplicate, when there are only two to
each plant; and aggregate, when there is a congeries
of fuch roots to each plant.
BULBOCASTANUM, in botany. SccBunium.
BULBOCODIUM, in botany, a genus of the hexan-
dria monogynia clafs. The corolla is lhaped like a
tunnel, and confids of five petals; the claws of the
petals are narrow. There is but one fpecies, viz. the
vernum, a native of Spain.
BULBOSE. See Bulb.
BULEUTiE, in Grecian antiquity, were magidrates
anfwering to the decuriones among the Romans. See
Decurio.
BULGAR, the capital of the province of Bulgar, in
IS ) BUL
Rufiia, fituated on the river Wolga; E. long. 510,
and N. lat, 540.
BULGARIA, a province of Turky in Europe, bound¬
ed by the river Danube, which divides it from Walla*
chia and Moldavia on the north', by the Black Sea on
the ead, by Romania on the fouth, and by Servia on
the wed. Its chief city is Nicopolis.
Bulgarian language, the fame with the Sclavonic.
BULIMY, a difeafe in which the patient is affe&edwith
an infatiable and perpetual defire of eating; and, un-
lefs he is indulged, he often falls into fainting fits. It
is alfo called fa7ues canina, canine appetite.
BULITHUS, a done found either in the gall-bladder,
or in the kidneys and bladder of an ox. See Bos.
BULK of a fhip, the whole content in the hold for the
dowage of goods.
Bulk-heads are partitions made athwart the Ihip with
boards, by which one part is divided from the other;
as the great cabbin, gun-room, bread-room, and fe¬
veral other divifions. The bulk-head afore is the
partition between the fore-cadle and gratings in the
head.
BULL, in zoology. See Bos.
Bull, in adronomy. See Astronomy, p. 486,
487.
Bull’s-eye, among feamen, a fmall, obfcure, fublime
cloud, ruddy in the middle, that fometimes appears to
mariners, and is the immediate forerunner of a great
dorm at fea.
Bull-finch, in ornithology. See Loxia.
Bull-frog, in zoology. See Rana.
Bull-head, in ichthyology. SccCottus.
Bull, among ecclefiadics, a written letter, difpatched,
by order of the pope, from the Roman chancery, and
fealed with lead, being written on parchment, by
which it is partly didinguilhed from a brief. See the
article Brief.
It is a kind of apodolical refcript, or edidt, and is
chiefly in ufe in matters of judice or grace. If the
former be the intention of the bull, the lead is hung
by a hempen cord ; if the latter, by a filken thread.
It is this pendent lead, or feal, which is, properly
fpeaking, the bull, and which is imprefled, on one
fide, with the heads of St. Peter and St. Paul, and
on the other with the name of the pope and the year
of his pontificate. The bull is written in an old,
round, gothic letter, and is divided into five parts,
the narrative of the fadf, the conception, the claufe,
the date, and the falutation, in which the pope dyles
himfelffervus fervorum, i. e. the fervant ®f fervants.
Thefe indruments, befides the lead hanging to
them, have a crofs, wdth fome text of fcripture, or
religious motto, about it. Bulls are granted for the
confecration of bifliops, the promotion to benefices,
and the celebration of jubilees, &c.
Bull in coena Domini, a particular bull read every
year, on the day of the Lord’s fupper, or Maundy
Thurfday, in the pope’s prefence, containing excom¬
munications and anathemas againft heretics, and all
who dilturb or oppofe the jurifdidtion of the holy fee.
After
B U L ( 68? ) BUN
After the reading of the bull, the pope throws a burn¬
ing torch into the public place, to denote the thunder
of this anathema.
Golden Bull, an edidt, or imperial conflitution, made
by the emperor Charles IV. reputed to be the magna
charta, or the fundamental law of the German empire.
It is called golden, becaufe it has a golden feal, in
the form of a pope’s bull, tied with yellow and red
cords of filk : upon one fide is the emperor repre-
fented fitting on his throne, and on the other the Ca¬
pitol of Rome. It is alfo called Caroline, on Charles
IV’s account. Till the publication of the golden bull,
the form and ceremony of the eledtion of an emperor
were dubious and undetermined, and the number of
the eledtors not fixed. This folemn edidt regulated
the fundtions, rights, privileges, and pre-eminences of
the eledtors. The original, which is in Latin, on
vellum, is preferved at Frankfort: this ordonnance,
containing thirty articles, or chapters, was approved
of by all the princes of the empire, and remain dill in
force.
BULLA, in zoology, a genus belonging to the order of
vermes teftaceae. It is an animal of the fnail-kind :
The fhell confifts of one valve, convoluted, and with¬
out any prickles ; the aperture is narrowilh, oblong,
longitudinal, and entire at the bafe; the columella is
fmooth and oblique. There are twenty-three fpeci?s,
moft of them natives of the Afiatic and Atlantic 0-
ceans.
BULLiE, in Roman antiquity, ornaments at firft given
only to the fons of noblemen ; though afterwards they
became of more common ufe. This ornament was
firft given by Tarquinius with the praetexta to his fon,
who had, with his own hand, at fourteen years of age,
killed an enemy. Thus we find the bulla was a fign
of triumph. Macrobius relates, that the children of
freed men were allowed to wear the praetexta, and,
inftead of the golden bulla, a leathern one, about
their necks : Thofe bullae were made hollow within to
inclofe amulets againft envy, 6c. When the youth
arrived at fifteen years of age, they hung up their
bullae about the necks of their gods lares. We are
farther informed, that the bullae were not only hung
about the necks of young men, but of horfes alfo.
BULLEN, a term ufed by country people for hemp-
ftalks peeled.
BULLET, an iron or leaden ball, or Ihot, wherewith
fire-arms are loaded. See Ball.
BULLINGBROKE, in geography. See Boling¬
brook.
BULLION, uncoined gold or filver in the mafs.
Thofe metals are called fo, either when fmelted
from the native ore, and not perfectly refined; or
when they are perfectly refined, but melted down in
bars or ingots, or in any unwrought body, of any de¬
gree of finenefs.
When gold and filver are in their purity, they are
fo foft and flexible, that they cannot well be brought
into any falhion for ufe, without being firft reduced
and hardened with an alloy of fome other bafer metal.
To prevent thefe abufes, which fome might be
Vol. I. Numb. 29. 3
tempted to commit in the making of fuch alloys, the
legiflators of civilized countries have ordained, that
there lhall be no more than a certain proportion of a
bafer metal to a particular quantity of pure gold or
filver, in order to make them of the finenefs of what
is called the ftandard gold or filver of fuch a country.
According to the laws of England, all forts of
wrought plate in general, ought to be made to, the
legal dandard; and the price of our ftandard gold and
filver is the common rule whereby to fet a value on
their bullion, whether the fame be in ingots,- bars,
duft, or in foreign fpecie: whence it is eafy to con¬
ceive that the value of bullion cannot be exa&ly known*
without being firft aflayed, that the exaft quantity
of pure metal therein contained may be determined,
and confequently whether it be above or below the
ftandard.
Silver and gold, whether coined or uncoined, (tho*
ufed for a common meafure of other things), are no
lefs a commodity, than wine, tobacco, or cloth; and
may, in many cafes, be exported as much to the na¬
tional advantage as any other commodity.
BULLOCK, the fame with an ox, or gelded bull.
- See Bos.
BULLY-tree, in botany. See Chrysophyllum.
BULTEL, a term ufed to denote the refufe of meal after
drefling, or the cloth wherein it is drefled, otherwife
called bulter-cloth.
BULWARK, in the ancient fortification. See Ram-
BUMICILLI, a religious fe<5t of Mahometans in Egypt
and Barbary, who pretend to fight with devils, and
commonly appear in a fright and covered v/ith wounds
and bruifes. About the full moon they counterfeit a
combat in the prefence of all the people, which lafts
for two or three hours, and is performed with afta-
gaias, oiv javelins, till they fall down quite fpent; in
a little time, however, they recover their fpirits, get
up, and walk away.
BUNGAY, a market-town of Suffolk, fituated on the.
river Wavenny, about thirty-two miles north-eaft of
Bury: E. Ion. x° 3$/, and-N. lat. 520 35'.
BUNGO, or Bongo. See Bongo.
BUNIAS, in botany, a genus of the tetradynamia fili-
quofa clafs. The pod is deciduous, quadrangular,
and the angles are unequal and terminate in (harp
points. There are four fpecies, only one. of which,
viz. the cakile, or fea-rocket, is a native of Britain.
BUNDLE, a colle&ion of things wrapped up together.
Of bafte-ropes, harnefs-plates, and glover’s knives,
ten make a bundle ; of hamburg yarn, twenty ikeans;
of bafket-rods, three feet about the band.
BUNIUM, in botany, a genus of the pentandria digy-
nia clafs. The corolla is uniform; the umbella is
thick; and the fruit is oval. There is but one fpe¬
cies, viz. the bulbocaftanum, earth-nut, kipper-nut,
pig-nut, or hawk-nut, a native of Britain.
BUNK, or Bunken, in the materia medica. SccLeu-
CACANTHA.
BUNT of a fail, the middle part of it, formed defign-
edly into a bag or cavity, that the fail may gather
f 8 M more
B U P ( 690 ) BUR
more wind. It is ufed moftly in top-fails, beeaufe
courfes are generally cut fquare, or with but fmall al¬
lowance for bunt or compafs. The bunt holds much
leeward wind, that is, it hangs much to leeward.
Bunt-lines are fmall lines made fall: to the bottom of
the fails, in the middle part of the bolt-rope, to a
cringle, and fo are reeved through a fmall block, fei-
zed to the yard. Their ufe is to trice up the bunt of
the fail, for the better furling it up.
BUNTING, in ornithology, the Englilh name of a fpe-
cies of fringilla. See Fringilla.
BUNTINGFORD, a market town of Hertfordlhire,
about twelve miles north of Hertford: W. long, y',
and N. lat. 51° 55'.
BUNTZLAU, or Buntzel, the name of two towns
in Germany: the old town is fituated on the river
Elbe, and new town, which is become the moft confi-
derable, upon the Gizare, eight leagues from Lignitz,
in 160 zb' E. long, and 51° i2/ N. latitude. There
is likewife a town of that name in Silefia.
BUONO, as tempo-buono, in mulic, fignifies a cer¬
tain time or part of the meafure, more proper for cer¬
tain things than any other, as to end a cadence or
paufe, to place a long fyllable or fyncoped dilfonance,
concord, &c. In common time of four times to a bar,
the firft and third is one buono tempo, as the fecond
and lad are called tempo di cattiva.
BUOY, at fea, a (hort piece of wood, or a clofe-hooped
barrel, faftened fo as to float directly over the anchor,
that the men, who go in the boat to weigh the anchor,
may know where it lies.
Buoy is alfo a piece of wood, or cork, fometimes an
empty calk, well clofed, fwimming on the furface of
the water, and faftened, by a chain or cord, to a large
ftone, piece of broken cannon, or the like, ferving to
mark the dangerous places near a coaft, as rocks, Ihoals,
wrecks of veflels, anchors, tic.
There are fometimes, inftead of buoys, pieces of
wood placed in form of malts, in confpicuous places;
and fometimes large trees are planted in a particular
manner, in number two at leaft, to be taken in a right
line, the one hiding the other, fo as the two may ap¬
pear to the eye-no more than one.
Stream the Buoy is to let the anchor fall while the Ihip
has way.
To buoy up the cable is to fallen fome pieces of wood,
barrels, tic. to the cable, near the anchor, that the
cable may not touch the ground, in cafe it be foul or
rocky, left it Ihould be fretted and cut off.
BUOYANT, fomething which, by its aptnefs to float,
bears up other more ponderous and weighty things.
See Buoy.
BUPHAGA, in ornithology, a genus belonging to the
order of picae. The beak is ftreight an<J quadrangu¬
lar ; the mandibles are gibbous, entire, and the gib-
bofity is greater on the outfide. The feet are of the
ambulatory kind. The body is greyilh above, and of
a dirty yellow below ; the tail is lhaped like a wedge.
It is a native of Senegal; and frequently perches
upon oxen, and picks out the worms from their backs.
BUPRTHAEMUM, a genus of the fyngenefia polyga-
mia fuperflua clafs. The receptacle is paleaceous; the
margin of the pappus is obfolete; the fldes of the
feeds are marginated; and the ftigmata of the herma¬
phrodite flofcules are undivided. The fpecies are ten,
none of which are natives of Britain.
BUPLEURUM, in botany, a genus of the pentandria
digynia clafs. The involucrum of the umbells is large
and five-leaved; the fruit is ftriated, comprefled,
and roundifti. The fpecies are feventeen, only two
of which are natives of Britain, viz. the rotundifo-
lium, or thorow-wax; and the tenuiflimum, or the
leaft hare’s-ear.
BUPRESTIS, in zoology, a genus of infedts belonging
to the order of coleoptera. The feelers are like bri-
ftles, and about the length of the breaft ; the lead is
half retrafted into the thorax. There are twenty-fe-
ven fpecies of this infedt, moft of them natives of the
Indies.
BUQUOI, a town of Artois, in the French Nether-
lan3s, fituated on the confines of Picardy: E. long.
2° 40', and N. lat. 50° 12 .
BUR, a broad ring of iron, behind the place made for
the hand on the fpears ufed formerly in tilting, which
bur was brought to reft, when the tilter charged his
fpear.
BURBAS, in commerce, a fmall coin at Algiers, with
the arms of the dey ftruck on both fides : it is worth
half an afper.
BUR.CHAUSEN, a town of Germany, in the lower
Bavaria, fituated on the river Saltz : E. long. 130 25',
and N. lat. 48° 5/.
BURDEN, or Burdon, in mufic, the drone or bals,
and the pipe or firing which plays it: Hence that part
of a fong, that is repeated at the end of every ftanza,
is called the burden of it.
A chord which is to be divided, to perform the in¬
tervals of mufic, when open and undivided, is alfo
called the burden.
Burden of a Jhip is its contents, or number of tons it
will carry. The burden of a (hip may be determined
thus : multiply the length of the keel, taken within
board, by the breadth of the Ihip, within board, taken
from the midlhip-beam, from plank to plank, and mul¬
tiply the produdt by the depth of the hold, taken
from the plank below the keelfon, to the under part
of the upper deck plank, and divide the laft produd
by 94, then the quotient is the content of the tonnage
required. See Freight.
BURDO, that kind of mule produced between a horfe
and a ftie-afs. See Mule.
BURDOCK, in botany, the Englifti name of the xan-
thium. See Xanthium.
BURDUGNO, a town of the Morea, fituated on the
river Vafilipotomo, near Mifitra.
BUREN, a town of Dutch Guelderland, about fixteen
miles weft of Nimeguen: E. long.. 50 2Q/, andN.,
lat. $2°.
Buren is alfo the name of a town in Weftphalia in Ger¬
many, about five miles fouth of the city of Paderborn:
E. long. 8° 25', and N. lat. 510 35'.
BURFORD, a market-town of Oxfordfliire, about fif-
- teen
BUR ( 691 ) BUR
teen miles weft of Oxford: W. long, x'5 40', N. lut,
51 0 40'.
It gives the title of earl to the noble family of Beau-
clerc.
BURG, a town of Zutphen, in the Dutch Netherlands,
fituated upon the Old Iffel, about eighteen miles eaft of
Nimeguen : E. long. 6° xo', and N. lat. 52°.
BURGA, a cape of Algiers in Africa, running out into
the Mediterranean fea.
BURGAGE, an ancient tenure in boroughs, whereby
the inhabitants, by cuftom, hold their lands, i&c. of
the king, or other fuperior lord of the borough, at a
certain yearly rent: Alfo a dwelling-houfe in a bo¬
rough, was anciently called a burgage.
BURGEON, a term ufed by gardeners in the fame
fenfe with bud. See Bud.
BURGESS, an inhabitant of a borough, or one who
pofleffes a tenement therein.
In other countries, burgefs and citizen are con¬
founded together; but with us they are diftinguilhed :
The word is alfo applied to the magiftrates of fome
towns.
Burgefs is now ordinarily ufed for the reprefenta-
tive of a borough-town in parliament.
BURGGRAVE properly denotes the hereditary go¬
vernor of a caftle or fortified town, chiefly in Ger¬
many.
BURGH, See Borough.
Burgw-bots fignifies a contribution towards the build¬
ing or repairing of caftles, or walls, for the defence of
a borough, or city.
BuRGH-irfc^e is properly the breaking open a burgh,
houfe, inclofure, he. and in the laws of Canute, cap.
Iv. fignifies a fine impofed upon a community of a
town for a breach of the peace. According to Raf-
tallus, burgh-breche is, to be quit of trefpalTes com¬
mitted againft the peace, in city or borough.
BURGHERMESTERS. See Burgomaster.
BURGHMASTER, among miners. See Barmaster.
BURGHMOTE, the court of a borough.
BURGLARY, a felonious breaking and entering into
the dwelling-houfe of another perfon in the night¬
time, with an intent to commit fome felony, whether
the fame be executed, or not.
The like offence committed by day, is. called houfe-
breaking.
Burglary is an offence excluded the benefit of clergy,
and may be committed by taking away goods from a-
dwelling-houfe, any perfon being therein; or break¬
ing any Ihop, warehoufe, he. though in the day-time,
and taking goods from thence of five fhillings value, if
no perfon be therein,
BURGLES, a town of Tranfilvania, about thirty miles
north of Claufenburg, fubjeft to the houfe of Auftria :
E. long. 220 40', and N. lat. 47°4o'.
BURGOMASTER, the chief magiftrate of the great
towns in Flanders, Holland,, and Germany. The
power and jurifdiftion of the burgomafter is not the
fame in all places, every town having its particular cu-
ftoms and regulations : At Amfterdam there are four
ch.ofen by the voices of all thofe people in the fexiate,.
who have either been burgomafiers or echevins. Their
authority refembles that of our lord-mayor and aider-
men ; they difpofe of all under-offices that fall in their
time, keep the key of the bank, and enjoy a falary but
of five hundred guilders, all feafts, public entertain¬
ments, ere. being defrayed out of the common trea-
fury.
BURGOO, a dilh frequent at fea, being made of oat¬
meal, or greets, boiled in water till they burft, and
then fome butter added.
BURGOS, the capital of Old Caftile in Spain, about
one hundred and ten miles north of Madrid : W. long.
40 5/, and N. lat. 420 3c/.
BURGOW, a town of Swabia in Germany, about twen¬
ty miles weft of Augfburg : E. long. io° 20', N. lat.
4S0 30'.
BURGUNDY, or Burgogne, a province or govern¬
ment in France, having Champaign on the north, and
Dauphine on the fouth.
BURIAL, the interment of a deceafed perfon.
The rites of burial are looked upon in all countries,,
and at all times, as a debt fo facred, that fuch as ne-
glected to difeharge it were thought accurfed: Hence
the Romans called them jujia, and the Greeks \_nomi-
ma, dikaia, hofta,~\ &c. words implying the inviolable
obligations which nature has laid upon the living to
take care of the obfequies of the dead. Nor are we
to wonder, that the ancient Greeks and Romans were
extremely felicitous about the interment of their de¬
ceafed friends, fince they were ftrongly perfuaded, that
their fouls could not be admitted into the Elyfian fields
till their bodies were committed to the earth; and if
it happened that they never obtained the rites of burial,.
they were excluded from the happy manfions for the
term of an hundred years. For this reafon it was con-
fidered as a duty incumbent upon all travellers who'
ftiould meet with a dead, body in their way, to caft duft
or mould upon it three times, and of thefe three hand¬
fuls, one at leaft was caft upon the head. The an¬
cients likewife confidered it as a great misfortune if
they were not laid in the fepulchres of their fathers ;
for which reafon,. fuch as died in foreign countries had
ufually their allies brought home, and interred with
thofe of their anceftors. But notwithftanding their
great care in the burial5 of the dead, there were fome
perfons whom they thought unworthy of that laft of¬
fice, and to whom therefore they refufed it: Such.
were, 1. Public or private enemies. 2. Such as be¬
trayed, or confpired againft their country. 3. Tyrants,
who were always looked upon .as enemies to their coun¬
try. 4. Villains guilty of facrilege, 5. Such as died
in debt, whofe bodies belonged to their creditors.
And, 6.. Some particular offenders,, who fuffered ca¬
pital punifliment.
Of thofe who were allowed the rites of burial, fome
were diftinguiffied by particular circumftances of dif-
grace attending their interment: Thus-perfons killed
by lightening were buried apart by themfelves, being
thought odious to the gods.; thofe who wafted their
patrimony, forfeited the right of being buried in the
fepulchres of their fathers; and.thofe who.were guilty
BUR ( 692 ) BUR
of felf-murder were privately depofited in the ground,
without the accullomed folemnities. Among the Jews,
the privilege of burial was denied only to lelf-murder-
ers, who were thrown out to rot upon the ground. In
the Chriftian church, though good men always defired
the privilege of interment, y :t they were not, like the
heathens, fo concerned for their bodies, as to think it
any detriment to them, if either the barbarity of an e-
nemy, or fome other accident, deprived them of this pri •
vilege. The primitive Chriftian church denied the more
folemn rites of burial only to unbaptized perfons, felf-
jnurderers, and excommunicated perfons who continued
obftinate and impenitent, in a manifeft contempt of the
church’s cenfures.
The place of burial among the Jews was never par¬
ticularly determined. We find they had graves in the
town and country, upon the highways, in gardens, and
upon mountains. Among the Greeks, the temples were
made repofitories for the dead in the primitive ages ;
yet the general cuftom in latter ages, with them, as
well as with the Romans and other heathen nations,
was to bury their dead without their cities, and chief¬
ly by the highways. Among the primitive Chriltians,
burying in cities was not allowed for the firft three
hundred years, nor in churches for many ages after,
the dead bodies being firft depofited in the atrium or
church-yard, and porches and porticos of the church :
hereditary burying-places were forbidden till the 12th
century. As to the time of burial, with all the cere¬
monies accompanying it, fee the article Funeral-
rites.
BURICK, a town of the duchy of Cleves, in the circle
of Weftphalia in Germany, firaated on the river Rhine,
about twenty miles fouth of Cleves : E. long. 6° 5',
N. lat. 51° 3 j'.
BURLESQUE, a fpecies of compofition, which, tho’
a great engine of ridicule, is not confined to that fub-
jeCt; for it is clearly diftinguifhable into burlefque
that excites laughter merely, and burlefque that excites
derifion or ridicule. A grave fubjeft, in which there
is no impropriety, may be brought down by a certain
colouring fo as to be rifible, as in Virgil Traveftie;
the author firft laughs at every turn, in order to make
his readers laugh. The Lutrin is a burlefque poem
of the other fort, laying hold of a low and trifling in¬
cident to expofe the luxury, indolence, and contentious
fpirit of a fet of monks. Boileau, the author, turns
the fubjeft into ridicule by dreffing it in the he¬
roic ftyle; and affedting to confider it as of the utmoft
dignity and importance. Though ridicule is the poet’s
aim, he always carries a grave face, and never once
bewrays a fmile. The oppofition between the fubjedt
and the manner of handling it, is what produces the
ridicule ; and therefore, in a compofition of this kind,
no image profeffedly ludicrous ought to have quarter,
becaufe fuch images deftroy the contrail.
Though the burlefque that aims at ridicule, produ¬
ces its effedls by elevating the ftyle far above the fub-
jedt, yet the poet ought to confine himfelf to fuch ima¬
ges as are lively, and readily apprehended. A drain¬
ed elevation, foaring above the ordinary reach of fan¬
cy, makes not a pleafant impreflion. The mind is
foon difgufted by being kept long on the ftretch. Ma¬
chinery may be employed in a burlefque poem, fuch
as the Lutrin, the Difpenfary, or Hudibras, with
more fuccefs and propriety than in any other fpe¬
cies of poetry. For burlefque poems, though they
alfume the air of hiftory, give entertainment chiefly by
their pleafant and ludicrous pidlures: It is not the aim
of fuch a poem to raife fympathy; and for that rea-
fon, a ftridt imitation of nature is not neceflary. And
hence, the more extravagant the machinery in a ludi¬
crous poem, the more entertainment it affords.
BURLINGTON, a fea-port town in the Eaft Riding
of Yorklhire, fituated on the German ocean, about
thirty-feven miles north-eaft of York : E. long. jo/,
and N. lat. 54° 15'.
It gives the title of earl to a branch of the noble
family of Boyle.
New Burlington, the capital of New-Jerfey, in
North America ; fituated in an ifland of Delawar ri¬
ver, about twenty miles north of Philadelphia: W.
long. 74°, and N. lat. 40° 40/.
BURMANNIA, in botany, a genus of the hexandria
monogynia clafs. The calix is lhaped like a prifm,
coloured and divided into three fegments, with mem¬
branaceous angles ; the petals are three ; the capfule
is three-celled ; and the feeds are very fmall. There
are only two fpecies, none of them natives of Britain.
BURN, in medicine and furgery, an injury received in
any part of the body by fire. See Medicine, and
Surgery.
BURNET, in botany. See Poterium, and Sangui ■
SORBA.
BURNHAM, a market-town of Norfolk, about 25
miles north-weft of Norwich : E. long. 50', and N.
lat. 53°.
BURNING, the adlion of fire on fome pabulum, or
fuel, by which the jninute parts thereof are put into a
violent motion, and fome of them alfuming the nature
of fire themfelves, fly off in orbem, while the reft are
diflipated in form of vapour, or reduced to allies.
See Fire.
Burning, or Brenning, in our old cuftoms, denotes
an infectious difeafe, got in the ftews by converfing
with lewd women, and fuppofed to be the fame with
what we now call the venereal difeafe.
In a manufcript of the vocation of John Bale to
the bifhopric of Oflbry, written by himfelf, he fpeaks
of Dr. Hugh Wefton, who was dean of Windfor, in
1556, but deprived by cardinal Pole for adultery,
thus : “ At this day is leacherous Wefton, who is
more praCtifed in the arts of breech-burning, than all
the whores of the ftews. He not long ago brent a
beggar of St. Botolph’s parilh.” See Stews.
Burning, in antiquity, a way of difpofing of the dead,
much pradtifed by the ancient Greeks and Romans,
and ftill retained by feveral nations in both the Eaft
and Weft Indies.
Euftathius alfigns two reafons why burning came to
be of fo general ufe in Greece; the firft is, becaufe
bodies were thought to be unclean after the foul’s de¬
parture.
BUR ( 693 ) BUR
parture, and therefore were purified with fire. The
fecond reafon is, that the foul, being feparated from the
grofs and unadtive matter, might be at liberty to take
its flight into heaven. The body was rarely burnt
without company, for befides the various animals they
threw upon the pile, we feldom find a man of quality
confumed without a number of flaves and captives,
which, in barbarous times, they ufed to murder for
that purpofe : and in fome parts of the Eaft Indies it
is cuftomary, at this day, for wives to throw them-
felves into the funeral pile with their deceafed huf-
bands. At the funerals of emperors, generals, &c.
who had their arms burnt with them, the foldiers
made proceffion three times round the funeral pile
with fhouts and trumpets, to exprefs their refpedt to
the dead. During the burning alfo, the dead perfon’s
friends flood by, called on the deceafed, and poured
out libations of wine, with which, when the pile was
burnt down, they extinguilhed the remains of the fire ;
and having collected the bones of the deceafed, wafti-
ed them with wine, and anointed them with oil.
When the bones were difcovered, they gathered the
allies that lay clofe to them, and both were repofited
in urns, either of wood, flone, earth, filver, or gold,
according to the quality of the deceafed. See Urn.
Burning, among furgeons. See Cauterization.
Burning is much praftifed by the people of the Eaft
Indies, particularly thofe of Japan, who ufe the moxa
for this purpofe. See Moxa.
Burning-^/*?//, a convex or concave glafs, commonly
fpherical, which being expofed dire&Iy to the fun,
colle&s all the rays falling thereon into a very fmall
fpace, called the focus ; where wood, or any other
combuftible matter being put, will be fet on fire. See
Optics.
BuRNiNG-racKK/a/uj. See Volcano.
Burning 0/ colours, among painters. There are fe-
veral colours that require burning; as firft, lamp¬
black, which is a colour of fo greafy a nature, that,
except it is burnt, it will require a long time to dry.
The method of burning, or rather drying, lamp¬
black, is as follows : Put it into a crucible over a
clear fire, letting it remain till it be red hot, or fo
near it that there is no manner of fmoke arifes from it.
Secondly, Umber, which if it be intended for co¬
lour for a horfe, or to be a lhadow for gold, then
burning fits it for both thefe purpofes.
In order to burn umber, you muft put it into the
naked fire, in large lumps, and not take it out till it
is thoroughly red hot ; if you have a mind to be more
curious, put it into a crucible, and keep it over the
fire till it be red hot.
Ivory alfo mull be burnt to make black, thus : fill
two crucibles with (havings of ivory, then -dap their
two mouths together, and bind them fafl with an iron
wire, and lute the joints clofe with clay, fait, and
hor(e-dung, well beaten together; then fet it over
the fire, covering it all over with coals : let it remain
in the fire, till you are fure that the matter inclofed
is thoroughly red hot: then ta'ke it out of the fire;
but do not open the crucibles till they are perfedly
Vol. I. Numb. 29.. 3
cold ; for were they opened while hot, the matter
would turn to afnes ; and fo it will be, if the joints
are not luted clofe.
BURNISHER, around, polifhed piece of fleel, ferving
to fmooth arid give a luftre to metals.
Of thefe there are different kinds of different fi¬
gures, ftrait, crooked, Isc. Half burniftiers are ufed
to folder filver, as well as to give a luffre. See Sol¬
dering.
BURNISHING, the art of fmoothing or polifliing a
metalline body, by a bride rubbing of it with a bur-
nifher.
Book-binders burniflt the edges of their books, by
rubbing them with a dog’s tooth. Gold and filver are
burnidied, by rubbing them with a wolf’s tooth, or by
the bloody ftone, or by tripoli, a piece of white wood,
emery, and the like. Deer are (aid to burnifli their
heads, by rubbing off a downy white Hein from their
horns, againft a tree.
BURNLEY, a market-town of Lancafliire, about 27
miles fouth-eaft of Lancafter : W. long. 20 and
^N. lat. 53® 40'.
BURR , the round knob of a horn next a deer’s head.
BURRE, Bouree, or Boree, a kind of dance com-
pofed of three fteps joined together in two motions,
begun with a crotchet riling. Tiie firff couplet con¬
tains twice four meafures, the fecond twice eight. It
confiffs of a balance and coupee.
BURREGREG, a confiderable river of the kingdom of
Fez, in Africa ; which taking its rife in the Atlas
mountains, falls into the ocean not far from the ffraits
of Gibraltar.
BURR-PUMP, or Bildge-pump, differs from the
common pump, in having a ftaff 6, 7, or 8 feet long,
with a bar of wood, whereto the leather is nailed,
and this ferves inffead of a box. So two men, -flarid-
• ing over the pump, thruft down this ftaff, to the mid¬
dle whereof is faflened a rope, for 6, 8, or 10 to hale
by, thus pulling it up and down.
BURROCK, a fmall wier or dam, where wheels are laid
in a river, for the taking of fifli.
BURROW, orBoRouGH. See Borough.
BURROWS, holes in a warren, which fervp as a co¬
vert for hares, rabbits, fcc.
BURSA, opPrusa, in geography, the capital of Bi-
thinia, in Afia Minor, fituated in a fine fruitful plain,
at the foot of mount Olympus, about an hundred miles
fouth of Conftantinople : E. long. 290, and N. lat.
40° 30'.
BuRSA-/nv/?!?r//, in botany. SeeTHLASPi.
BURSAR, in a general fenfe, figriiGes a treafurer or
purfe-keeper, elpecially in a monaftery.
BURSE, in a commercial fenfe, a place for merchants
to meet in, and negotiate their bufinefs publicly, with
us called exchange. See Exchange.
BURSTEN, denotes a perfon who has a rupture. See
Rur cure.
BURTON, in geography, the name of two market-
towns, the one in Staffordfhire, and the other in
Lincolnlhire; the former being fituated about 18
miles eaft of Stafford, in i° 36' W. long, and 520 40'
f 8 N N. lat.
BUR ( 694 ) BUS
N. lat. and the latter, thirty miles north of Lincoln, of blafphemy, could aflume thefe titles ; and fince nei
in 30° W. long, and 530 40 N. lat.
Burton is alfo the name of a market-town in WeH>
moreland, about thirty miles fouth-weft: of Appleby :
W. long. 20 35', N. lat. 540 io\
Burton, in the fea-language, a fmall tackle confiding
of two fingle blocks, and may be made fad any where
at pleafure, for holding fmall things in and out; and
•will purchafe more than a fingle tackle with two
blocks.
BURY, in geography, a market-town of Lancafliire, a-
bout 30 miles fouth-ead of Lancader : W. long. 20
20', N. lat. 530 36'.
Bury St Edmunds, or St Edmund’s Bury, the
county-town of Suffolk, about twelve miles ead of
Newmarket, and feventy north-ead of London : E.
long. 45', N. lat. 52° 2o\
Bury is alfo a term fometimes ufed for the hole or den
of fome animal under ground, more ufualiy called
burrow.
Thus we fay, the bury of a mole, rabbit,
BUSH, a term ufed for feveral fhrubs of the fame kind
growing clofe together : thus we fay, a furze-bufh,
bramble-bufh, lire.
Bush is fometimes ufed, in a more general fenfe, for
any affemblage of thick branches interwoven and mix¬
ed together.
Burning-BvsH, that bufh wherein the Lord appeared to
Modes at die foot of mount Horeb, as he was feeding
his father-in-law’s flocks.
As to the perfon that appeared in the bulh, the text
fays, “ That the angel of the Lord appeared unto
him in a flame of fire, out of the middle of the bufh
but whether it was a created angel, fpeaking in the
perfon of God, or God himfelf, or (as the mod re¬
ceived opinion is) Chrid the Son of God, has been
matter of fome controverfy among the learned. Thofe
who fuppofe it no more than an angel, feem to imply
that it would be a diminution of the majefly of God,
to appear upon every occafion, efpecially when he has
fuch a number of celedial miniders, who may do the
bufinefs as well. But confidering that God is prefent
every where, the notification of his prefence by fome
outward fign in one determinate place, (which is all
we mean by his appearance), is in our conception lefs
laborious (if any thing laborious could be conceived
of God) than a delegation of angels upon every turn
from heaven, and feems in the main to illudrate ra¬
ther than debafe the glory of his nature and exidence.
But however this be, it is plain that the angel here
fpeken of was no created being, from the whole con¬
text, and efpecially from his faying, “ I am the Lord
God, the Jehovah,” ire. fince this is not the lan¬
guage of angels, who are always known to exprefs
themfelves in fuch humble terms as thefe, “ I am fent
from God; I am thy fellow-fervant,” ire. It is a
vain pretence to fay, that an angel, as God’s ambaf-
fador, may fpeak in God’s name and perfon ; for what
ambaffador of any prince ever yet faid, “ I am the
king ?” Since therefore no angel, without the guilt
ther God the Father, nor the Holy Ghod, are ever
called by the name of angel, /. e. a meflenger, or per¬
fon fent, whereas God the Son is called by the pro¬
phet Malachi, (chap. iii. 1.), “ The angel of the co¬
venant it hence feems to follow, that this angel of
the Lord was God the Son, who might very properly
be called an angel, becaufe in the fuinefs of time he
was fent into the world in our flelh, as a meflenger
from God, and might therefore make thefe his tem¬
porary apparitions, prefages and forerunners, as it
were, of his more folemn miflion.
The Mahometans believe, that one of Mofes’s (hoes,
put off by him as he drew near the burning-bulb, was
placed in the ark of the covenant, in order to preferve
the memory of this miracle.
BUSHEL, a meafure of capacity for dry things, as
grain, fruits, dry pulfe, ire. containing four pecks, -
or eight gallons, or one-eighth of a quarter.
A bulhel, by 12 Henry VII. c. 5. is to contain
eight gallons of wheat; the gallon eight pounds of
troy-weight; the ounce twenty derlings, and the fler-
ling thirty-two grains, or corns of wheat growing in
the midd of the ear.
At Paris, the bulhel is divided into two half bufh-
els ; the half bulhel into two quarts ; the quart into
two half qnatts ; the half quart into two litrons ; and
the litron into two half litrons. By a fentence of the
proved of the merchants of Paris, the bufhel is to be
eight inches two lines and a half high, and ten inches
in diameter ; the quart four inches nine lines high,
and fix inches nine lines wide ; the half quart four
inches three lines high, and five inches diameter ; the
litron three inches and a half high, and three inches
ten lines in diameter. Three bulhels make, a minot;
fix, a mine ; twelve, a feptier ; and an hundred and
forty-four, a muid. In other parts of France the.
bulhel varies.
Oats are meafured in a double proportion to other
grains, fo that twenty-four bulhels of oats make! a
feptier, and 288 a muid. The bulhel of oats is di¬
vided into four picotins, the picotin into two half
quarts, or four litrons. For fait, four bulhels make
one minot, and fix a feptier ; for coals, eight bulhels-
make one minot, fixteen a mine, and 320 a 'muid ;
for lime, three bulhels make a minot, and forty-eight
minots a muid.
BUSKIN, a kind of Ihoe, fomewhat in manner of a
boot, and adapted to either foot, and worn by either
fex.
This part of drefs, covering both, the foot and mid¬
leg, was tied underneath the knee ; it was very rich
and fine, and principally ufed on the ftage by a&ors in
tragedy. It was of a quadrangular form, and the foie
was fo thick,, as that, by means thereof, men of the
ordinary ftature might be raifed to the pitch and ele¬
vation of the heroes they perfonated. The colour
was generally purple on the ftage: herein it was di-
ftinguilhed from the fock, worn in comedy, that be¬
ing only a. low common Ihoe. The bufkin feems to
have
BUS ( 69S ) BUT
Tiave been worn, not only by aftors, but by girls, to
raife their height; travellers and hunters alfo made ufe
of it, to defend themfelves from the mire.
In claffic authors, we frequently find the bulkin ufed
to fignify tragedy itfelf, in regard it was a mark of
tragedy on the ftage.
It is alfo to be underftood for a lofty ftrain, or high
ftyle.
BUSS, in maritime affairs, a fmall fea-veflel, ufed by
us and the Dutch in the herring-filhery, commonly
from forty-eight to fixty tons burden, and fometimes
more : A bufs has two fmall Iheds or cabins, one at the
prow, and the other at the ftern; that at the prow
ferves for a kitchen.
Every bufs has a mafter, an afliftant, a mate, and
feamen in proportion to the veffel’s bignefs : the ma¬
iler commands in chief, and without his exprefs or¬
der the nets cannot be call, nor taken up ; the affift-
ant has the command after him ; and the mate next,
whofe bufinefs is to fee the feamen manage their rig¬
ging in a proper manner, to mind.thofe who draw in
their nets, and thofe who kill, gut, and cure the her¬
rings, as they are taken out of the fea : The feamen
do generally engage for a whole voyage in the lump.
The provifion which they take on board the buffes,
confift commonly in bilket, oat-meal, and dried or
fait filh ; the crew being content for the reft with what
frefh filh they catch. See Fisheries.
BUST, or Busto, in fculpture, <&c. a term ufed for
the figure or portrait of a perfon in relievo, Ihewing
only the head, Ihoulders, and ftomach, the arms be¬
ing lopped off: it is ufuaily placed on a pedeftal or
confole.
M. Felibien obferves, that though, in painting, one
may fay a figure appears in buffo, yet it is not proper¬
ly called a bull; that word being confined to things in
relievo. The bull is the lame with what the Latins
called hernia, from the Greek hermes. Mercury, the
image of that god being frequently reprefented in that
manner by the Athenians.
BUSTARD, in ornithology. See Otis.
BUSTUARII, in Roman antiquity, gladiators who
fought about the buftum, or funeral pile of a deceafed
perfon of diftinftion, in the ceremony of his obfequies.
This cuftom was found to be lefs barbarous than the
firft pradtice was of facrificing captives at the buftum,
or on the tomb of warriors; inftances whereof we
meet with both in Roman and Greek antiquities : the
blood fpilt on this occafion, was fuppofed to appeafe,
by way of facrifice, the infernal gods, that they might
be more propitious to the manes of the deceafed.
BUSTUARLE moech.®, according to fome, women
that were hired to.accompany the funeral, and lament
the lofs of the deceafed : but others are of opinion,
that they were rather the more common proftitutes,
that ftood among the tombs, graves, and other fueh
lonely places.
BUSTUM, in antiquity, a pyramid or pile of wood
upon which were anciently placed the bodies of the
deceafed, in order to be burnt. Some authors fay,
that it was properly called buftum after the. burning.
quaji bene ujhwt; that before the burning it was cal¬
led pyra, and during the burning, rogm.
The buftum in the Campus Martius was encompaf-
fed round with white ftone, and an iron rail.
BUTCHER, a perfon who llaughters cattle for the ufe
of the table, or who cuts up and retails the fame.
Among the ancient Romans, there were three kinds-
of eftablilhed butchers, whofe office was to furniffi the
city with the neceflary cattle, and to take care of pre¬
paring and vending their fleffi. The fuarii provided
hogs; the pecuarii or boarii, other cattle, efpecially
oxen; and under thefe was a fubordinate clafs, whofe
office was to kill, called lanii, and carnifices. To
exercife the office of butcher among the Jews with
dexterity, was of more reputation than to underftand
the liberal arts and fciences. They have a book con¬
cerning ffiamble-conftitution ; and-in cafe of any diffi¬
culty, they apply to fome learned rabbi for advice:
nor was any allowed to pradtife this art, without a
licence in form; which gave the man, upon evidence
of his abilities, a power to kill meat, and others to
eat what he killed ; provided he carefully read every
week for one year, and every month the next year,
and once a quarter during his life, the conftitution a-
bove mentioned. We have fom« very good laws for
the better regulation and preventing the abufes com¬
mitted by butchers. A butcher that fells fwine’s flefh
meazled, or dead of the murrain, for the firft offence
fhall be amerced; for the fecond, have the pillory ;
for the third, be imprifoned and make fine; and for
the fourth, abjure the town. Butchers not felling
meat at reafonable prices, ihall forfeit double the va¬
lue, leviable by warrant of two juftices of the peace.
No butcher ffiail kill any flefh in his fcalding-houfe,
or within the walls of London, on pain to forfeit for
every ox fo killed, tad. and for every other beaft,
8 d. to be divided betwixt the king and the profecutor.
Butcher-bird, in ornithology. See Lanius.
Butcher’s-eroom, in botany. See Ruseus.
BUTE, an ifland of Scotland, lying in the mouth of
the frith of Clyde, louth of Cowal in Argylelhire.
It gives the title of earl to a branch of the Stuart fa¬
mily. Bute and Cathnefs fend only one member to
parliament between them, each choofing in its turn,
whereof Bute has the firft.
BUTEO, in ornithology, the trivial name of a fpecies
of falco. SeeFALCo.
BUTLER, the name anciently given to an officer in the
court of France, being the fame as the grand echanfon,
or great cup-bearer of the prefent times.
Butlxr,, in the common acceptation of the word, is an
officer in the houfea of princes and great men, wbofe
principal bufinefs is to look after the wine, plate, fee.
BUTLERAGE of wine, is a duty of two fhillings for
every ton of wine imported by merchants ftrangers;
being a compofition in lieu of the liberties and free¬
doms' granted to them by king John and Edward I.
by a charter called charta mercatoria.
Butlerage was originally the only cuftom that was
payable upon the importation of wines, and was taken
and received by virtue of the regal prerogative, for
the.
B U T ( 696 ) BUT
the proper ufe of the crown. But for many years
part, there having been granted by parliament fubfi-
dies to the kings of England, and the duty of butle-
rage not repealed, but confirmed, they have been
pleafed to grant the fame away to fome nobleman,
who, by virtue of fuch grant, is to enjoy the.full be¬
nefit and advantage thereof, and may caufe the fame
to be colledled in the fame manner that the kings them-
felves were formerly wont to do.
RUTMENTS, in architefture, thofe fupporters or
props on,or again!!: which the feet of arches reft.
Bu i'MENris alfo the term given to little places taken
out of the yard or ground-plot of a houfe, for a but¬
tery, fcullery,
BUTOMUS, in botany, a genus of the enneandria hex-
agynia clafs. It has no calix; the corolla confifts of
fix petals; and the capfules are fix, containing many
feeds. There is but one fpecies, viz. the umbellatus,
flowering-rulh, or water-gladiole, a native of Britain.
BUTRINTO, a port-town of Epirus, or Canina, in
Turky in Europe, fituated oppofite to the ifland of
Corfu, at the entrance of the gulph of Venice: E.
long. 200 40', N. hit. 390 45'.
BUTT, in commerce,, a vefiel or meafure of wine, con¬
taining two hogfti'f is, or 126 gallons. See Pipe.
Butt, or Butt-ends, in the fea-language, are the
fore-ends of all planks under water, as they rife, and
are joined one end to another.
Butt-ends in great ftiips are moft carefully bolted ;
for if any one of them ftioiild fpring or give way, the
leak would be very dangerous and difficult to ftop.
BUTTER, a fat undtuous fubftance, prepared from
milk by heating or churning it.
It was late ere the Greeks appear to have had any
notion of butter; their poets make no mention of it,
and yet are frequently fpeaking of milk and cheefe.
The Romans ufed butter no otherwife than as a me¬
dicine, never as a food.
The ancient Chriftians of Egypt burnt butter in
their lamps inftead of oil; and in the Roman churches,
it was anciently allowed, during Chriftmas time, to
burn butter inftead of oil, on account of the great con-
fumption of it otherways.
For the making of butter, when it has been churn¬
ed, open the churn, and with both hands gather it well
together, take it out of the butter-milk, and lay it in¬
to a very clean bowl, or earthen pan; and if the but¬
ter be defigned to be ufed fweet, fill the pan with
clear water, and work the butter in it to and fro, till
it is brought to a firm confiftence of itfelf, without
any moifture. When this has been done, it muft be
fcotched and fliced over with the point of a knife,
every way as thick as poflible, in order to fetch out
the fmalleft hair, mote, bit of rag, ftrainer, or any
thing that may have happened to fall into it. Then
fpread it thin in a bowl, and work it well together,
with fuch quantity of fait as you think fit, and make
it up into difties, pounds, half pounds, <bc. The
newer the butter is, the more wholefome and pleafant
it is; and that which is made in May, is efteemed
the heft.
There are as many forts of butter, as there are dif¬
ferent milks of animals whereof to make it: That of
the cow is moft in ufe. It is ufed every where, and
there is hardly any fauce made without it. The
northern people, however, make more ufe of it than
others.
Every barrel of butter, imported from abroad, pavs
a duty of 3s. jo-r^d whereof 3 s. 4-id. is drawn
back on exporting it. Inlh butter pays only a duty
of is. n-r'^d. the hundred weight; whereof is.
RrVg-d. is drawn back on exporting it.
Butter among chemifts, a name given to feveral pre¬
parations, on account of their confiftence refembling
that of butter; as butter of antimony, of arlemc, of
wax, of lead, of tin.' See Chemistry.
Butter-bur, in botany. See Petasites.
Butter-fish. See Blennius.
BUTTERFLY, the Englifh name of a numerous genus
of infe<fts. See Papilio.
Butterfly-fish, a fpecies of the blennius. See
B len n1u s.
Butterfly-shell, in naturalhiftory. See Voluta.
BUTTERIS, in the menace, an inftrument of fteel,
fitted to a wooden handle, wherewith they pare the
, foot, or cut the hoof of a horfe.
BUTTER-MILK, a kind of ferum that remains behind,
after the butter is made.
Butter-wort, in botany. See Pinguicula.
BUTTERY, a room in the houfes of noblemen and
gentlemen, belonging to the butler, where he depo-
fites the utenfils belonging to his office, as table linen,
napkins, pots, tankards, glafifes, cruets, falvers, fpoons,
knives, forks, pepper, muftard, &c.
BUTTOCK of a Jhip> is that part of her which is her
breadth right aftern, from the tack upwards; and a
!hip is faid to have a broad or a narrow buttock, ac¬
cording as ffie is built broad or narrow at the tranfum.
BUTTON, an article of drefs, ferving to faften cloaths
tight about the body, made of metal, filk, mohair,
<bc. in various forms. Metal-buttons are either caft
in moulds, in the manner of other fmall works, (fee
Foundery), or made of thin plates of gold, filver,
or brafs, whofe ftrudhire is very ingenious, though but
of little ufe.
Buttons of all forts are prohibited-to be imported.
Button, among gardeners, denotes much the fame with
bud. See Bud.
Button, in the menage. Button of the reigns of a
bridle, is a ring of leather, with the reins pafl’ed thro’
it, which runs all along the length of the reins. To
put a horfe under the button, is when a horfe is flop¬
ped without a rider upon his back, the reins being laid
on his neck, and the button lowered fo far down that
the reins bring in the horfe’s head, and fix it to the
true pofture or carriage. It is not only the horfes
which are managed in the hand that muft be put un¬
der the button; for the fame method muft be taken
with fuch horfes as are bred between two pillars, be¬
fore they are backed.
BUTTON’/ bay, the name of the north part of Hnd-
fon’s bay, in North America, whereby Sir Thomas
Button
B U X ( 607 ) B Y Z
Button attempted to find out a north-weft paflage to
the Eaft Indies. It lies between 8o° and ioo° W.
long, and between 6o° and 66° N. lat.x
BUTTRESS, a kind of butment built archwife, or a
mafs of ftone or brick,' ferving to prop or fupport the
Tides of a building, wall, &c.- on the outfide, where
it is either very high, or has any confiderahle load to
fuftain on the other fide, as a bank of earth, &c.
Buttrefies are ufed againft the angles of fteeples
and other buildings of ftone, &c. on the outfide, and
along the walls of fuch buildings as have great and
heavy roofs, which would be fubjeft to thruft the walls
out, unlefs very thick,, if no buttreftes were placed
againft them. They are alfo placed for a fupport and
butment againft the feet of fome arches, that are turn¬
ed acrofs great halls in old palaces, abbeys, <&c.
BUTZAW, a town of Lower Saxony, in Germany;
it ftands upon the river Varnow, on the road from
Schwerin to Roftock.
BUXTON, a place in the peak of Derbyftiire, cele¬
brated for medicinal waters y the hotteft in England,
next to Bath.
Buxton-w<?//j. The ftrata of earth and minerals, in
the parts adjacent to Buxton, are peat-mofs, blue
clay, iron, and coal, mixed with fulphur and brazil.
The warm waters there, at prefent, are the bath,
which takes in feveral warm fprings=; St Ann’s well,
a hot and cold fpring rifing up into the fame recep¬
tacle ; and Bingham-well.
Thefe waters greatly promote digeftion, unlefs they
are drnnk too long, in which cafe they relax the fto-
, mach, and retard digeftion ; they are well adapted to
obftru&ions of every kind, whence they produce fur-
prifing effedls in gouty, rheumatic, athritic, and fcor-
butic pains. As this water is warm, highly impreg¬
nated with a mineral fteam, vapour, or fpirit, it is
fignally beneficial to cramps, convulfions, dry afthmas,
the bilious colic, ftiffnefs, (ire.
They advife both drinking and bathing in the ufe of
thefe waters; only the laft is of bad confequence in
the gout, inward inflammations, fevers, dyfentery,
large inward tumours, or in an outward preflure of the
,, body.
BUXUS, in botany, a genus of the monoecia tetrandria
clafs. The calix of the male confifts of three leaves ;
and the corolla has two petals: The calix of the fe¬
male has four leaves the petals are three; it has three
ftyli; and the capfule has three cells containing two
feeds. There is but one fpecies, viz. the fempervi-
rens, or box-tree, a native of Britain. A deco&ion
Vol. I. No 29. 3
of the leaves and wood has been recommended as a
powerful fudorific; but is not now ufed by practition¬
ers. The wood is of a hard clofe texture, and is
greatly ufed by mechanics for tools of various kinds.
BEYS, a town of Dauphine, in France, fituated on
the confines of Provence; E. long. 50 20 , and N..
lat. 440 2 yE
BUZZARD, in ornithology, the Englifti name of feve¬
ral fpecies of the hawk kind. See Falco;
BYGHOF, or Bygow, a city of Lithuania in Poland,
fituated on the river Nieper ; E. long, go0, and N.
lat. 530.
BY-LAWS, or Bye-laws, private and peculiar laws
for the good government of a city, court, or other
community, made by, the general confent of the mem^
bers
All by-laws are to be reafonable, and for the com¬
mon benefi?, not private advantage of any particular
perfons, and muft be agreeable to the public laws in
being.
BYRLAW, or Burlaw laws, in Scotland, are made
and determined by neighbours, elected by common
confent in byrlaw courts. The men chofen as judges,
are called byrlaw or burlaw men,’ and take'cognizance
of complaints between neighbour and neighbour.
BYRRHUS. in zoology, an order of infedts belpngihg
to the order of coleoptera, Thd feelers are clavated,
pretty folid, and a little coropfefled. There are five
fpecies, all of which are to be found on particular
plants, and principally diftinguiflied from each other
by the colour and figure of the elytra or cruftaceous
wing-cafes.
BYSSUS, in botany, a genus of mofles belonging to
the .cryptogamia algae. The character is taken from
this circumftance, that they are covered with a fimple
capillary filament or down, refemhling foft dufti The
fpecies are 15, all natives of Britain.
BYSSUS, in antiquity, that fine Egyptian linen where¬
of the tunics of the Jewifh priefts were made.
Phdo fays, that the byffus is the cleareft tind moft
beautiful, the whiteft, ftrongeft, and moft glofiy fort
of linen; that it is not made of any thing mortal,
that is to fay, of wool, or the flein of any animal, but
that it comes out of-the earth, and becomes always
whiter, and more Aiming, when it is waflied_ as it
fliould be.
BYZANT. See Bezant.
BYZANTIUM, the ancient name of Conftantinople.
See Constantinople.
BZO, a town of Africa, in the kingdom of Motocco,
f 8 O
E.n d of the First Volume,
ERR
Page 127. column 2. end of the firfl: paragraph, read
Plate XI. fig. 3.; and at the end of the next pa¬
ragraph, Plate XL fig. 2.
End of the article Amphisboena, read Plate XIL
fig. 2.
St Andrew’/ day. For the thirteenth, read the thir¬
tieth of November.
Page 466. col. 1. 1. 52. for vkX, read /kA.
Page 467. col. 1. 1. 12. fupply Plate XLIII. fig. 4.
to which the reference-letters and figures in the pa¬
ragraph belong.
Page 468. col. 1. 1. 26. for fig. 3. rszdfig. y .
In fig. 9. of Plate LI. the Bafion, or Bajlard-lar, is
reprefented in a wrong diredtion. It fnould run
thus, f£!.
Bos. End of par. 2. del. Plate LII. fig. 2. which is
It is humbly hoped, that the above faults,
omitted as trivial, will be candidly deemed venial in
prefeat.
A T A.
not a figure of the common bull, but of the Bifon,
defcribed p. 625. col. 2.
In the article Breton, for fubjett to the Englijh, read
fubjefl to the Britijh.
Plate 47. reprefents a different Orrery from the one de¬
fcribed. The right one will be engraven, and de¬
livered in due time.
Book-keeping, A variety of preliminary Problems,
Cafes, foe. referred to by the letters and numbers
which the reader will obferve fubjoined to the ex¬
amples in the Wafle-book, were by accident omit¬
ted in the printing; but will be printed and given
in proper time, with diredtions for inferring them.
—So that this and the preceding article may be ex¬
punged from this lift ’when the book is bound.
with others which may have efcaped notice, or are here
a work fo complex, fo various, and fo extenfrve as the
